docs/docs/browser-support.md, before:

---
title: Browser Support
---

Gatsby supports
[the same browsers as the current stable version of React.js](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/react-dom.html#browser-support)
which is currently IE9+ as well as the most recent versions of other popular
browsers.

## Polyfills

Gatsby uses the ES6 Promise API. As some older browsers don't support this,
Gatsby includes by default a Promise polyfill. If you would like to provide your
own Promise polyfill, you can set `polyfill` to `false` in your
`gatsby-config.js`:

```
module.exports = {
  polyfill: false,
  // ...
}
```

## Specify what browsers your project supports using "Browserslist"

You may customize your list of supported browser versions by declaring a
[`"browserslist"`](https://github.com/ai/browserslist) key within your
`package.json`. Changing these values will modify your JavaScript (via
[`babel-preset-env`](https://github.com/babel/babel-preset-env#targetsbrowsers))
and your CSS (via [`autoprefixer`](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer))
output.

This article is a good introduction to the growing community of tools around
Browserslist — https://css-tricks.com/browserlist-good-idea/

By default, Gatsby emulates the following config:

```javascript
// package.json
{
 "browserslist": [
   "> 1%",
   "IE >= 9",
   "last 2 versions"
 ]
}
```

Commit message:

[v2] Remove support for adding a custom promise polyfill as we rely on Babel 7's "useBuiltins": "usage" polyfill functionality now (#4134)
* Remove support for adding a custom promise polyfill as we rely on Babel 7's "useBuiltins": "usage" polyfill functionality now

* Tweak copy

docs/docs/browser-support.md, after:

---
title: Browser Support
---

Gatsby supports
[the same browsers as the current stable version of React.js](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/react-dom.html#browser-support)
which is currently IE9+ as well as the most recent versions of other popular
browsers.

## Polyfills

Gatsby leverages Babel 7's ability to automatically add polyfills for your
target browsers.

Newer browsers support more JavaScript APIs than older browsers. For older
versions, Gatsby (via Babel) automatically adds the minimum "polyfills"
necessary for your code to work in those browsers.

If you start using a newer JavaScript API like `[].includes` that isn't
supported by some of your targeted browsers, you won't have to worry about it
breaking the older browsers as Babel will automatically add the needed polyfill
`core-js/modules/es7.array.includes`.

## Specify what browsers your project supports using "Browserslist"

You may customize your list of supported browser versions by declaring a
[`"browserslist"`](https://github.com/ai/browserslist) key within your
`package.json`. Changing these values will modify your JavaScript (via
[`babel-preset-env`](https://github.com/babel/babel-preset-env#targetsbrowsers))
and your CSS (via [`autoprefixer`](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer))
output.

This article is a good introduction to the growing community of tools around
Browserslist — https://css-tricks.com/browserlist-good-idea/

By default, Gatsby emulates the following config:

```javascript
// package.json
{
 "browserslist": [
   "> 1%",
   "IE >= 9",
   "last 2 versions"
 ]
}
```

If you only support newer browsers then make sure to specify this in your
package.json as you'll often be able then to ship smaller JavaScript files.
