docs/docs/creating-and-modifying-pages.md, before:

---
title: "Creating and modifying pages"
---

Gatsby makes it easy to programmatically control your pages.

Pages can be created in three ways:

* In your site's gatsby-node.js by implementing the API
  [`createPages`](/docs/node-apis/#createPages)
* Gatsby core automatically turns React components in `src/pages` into pages
* Plugins can also implement `createPages` and create pages for you

You can also implement the API [`onCreatePage`](/docs/node-apis/#onCreatePage)
to modify pages created in core or plugins or to create client-only pages.

## Debugging help

To see what pages are being created by your code or plugins, you can query for
page information while developing in Graph*i*QL. Paste the following query in
the Graph*i*QL IDE for your site. The Graph*i*QL IDE is available when running
your sites development server at `HOST:PORT/___graphql` e.g.
`localhost:8000/___graphql`.

```graphql
{
  allSitePage {
    edges {
      node {
        path
        component
        pluginCreator {
          name
          pluginFilepath
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can also query for any `context` data you or plugins added to pages.

## Creating pages in gatsby-node.js

Often you will need to programmatically create pages. For example, you have
markdown files where each should be a page.

This example assumes that each markdown page has a "path" set in the frontmatter
of the markdown file.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “createPages”. This is called once the
// data layer is bootstrapped to let plugins create pages from data.
exports.createPages = ({ boundActionCreators, graphql }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const blogPostTemplate = path.resolve(`src/templates/blog-post.js`);
    // Query for markdown nodes to use in creating pages.
    resolve(
      graphql(
        `
          {
            allMarkdownRemark(limit: 1000) {
              edges {
                node {
                  frontmatter {
                    path
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `
      ).then(result => {
        if (result.errors) {
          reject(result.errors);
        }

        // Create pages for each markdown file.
        result.data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.forEach(({ node }) => {
          const path = node.frontmatter.path;
          createPage({
            path,
            component: blogPostTemplate,
            // If you have a layout component at src/layouts/blog-layout.js
            layout: `blog-layout`,
            // In your blog post template's graphql query, you can use path
            // as a GraphQL variable to query for data from the markdown file.
            context: {
              path,
            },
          });
        });
      })
    );
  });
};
```

## Modifying pages created by core or plugins

Gatsby core and plugins can automatically create pages for you. Sometimes the
default isn't quite what you want and you need to modify the created page
objects.

### Removing trailing slashes

A common reason for needing to modify automatically created pages is to remove
trailing slashes.

To do this, in your site's `gatsby-node.js` add code similar to the following:

_Note: there's also a plugin that will remove all trailing slashes from pages automatically
[gatsby-plugin-remove-trailing-slashes](/packages/gatsby-plugin-remove-trailing-slashes/)
plugin._

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage, deletePage } = boundActionCreators;
  return new Promise(resolve => {
    const oldPage = Object.assign({}, page);
    // Remove trailing slash unless page is /
    page.path = _path => (_path === `/` ? _path : _path.replace(/\/$/, ``));
    if (page.path !== oldPage.path) {
      // Replace new page with old page
      deletePage(oldPage);
      createPage(page);
    }
    resolve();
  });
};
```

### Creating client-only routes

If you're creating a "hybrid" Gatsby app with both statically rendered pages as
well as client-only routes e.g. an app that combines marketing pages and your
app that lives under `/app/*`, you want to add code to your `gatsby-node.js`
like the following:

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = async ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  // page.matchPath is a special key that's used for matching pages
  // only on the client.
  if (page.path.match(/^\/app/)) {
    page.matchPath = "/app/:path";

    // Update the page.
    createPage(page);
  }
};
```

### Choosing the page layout

By default, all pages will use the layout found at `/layouts/index.js`.

You may wish to choose a custom layout for certain pages (such as removing
header and footer for landing pages). You can choose the layout component when
creating pages with the `createPage` action by adding a layout key to the page
object or modify pages created elsewhere using the `onCreatePage` API. All
components in the `/layouts/` directory are automatically available.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = async ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    if (page.path.match(/^\/landing-page/)) {
      // It's assumed that `landingPage.js` exists in the `/layouts/` directory
      page.layout = "landingPage";

      // Update the page.
      createPage(page);
    }

    resolve();
  });
};
```

Commit message:

Plugin client only paths (#3222)
* Add plop boilerplate

* Adds gatsby-node

* Add README

* Fix typo

* Add entry to plugins docs

* Renaming

* Formatting

* Updates docs

* format

* tweaks

* restore language

docs/docs/creating-and-modifying-pages.md, after:

---
title: "Creating and modifying pages"
---

Gatsby makes it easy to programmatically control your pages.

Pages can be created in three ways:

* In your site's gatsby-node.js by implementing the API
  [`createPages`](/docs/node-apis/#createPages)
* Gatsby core automatically turns React components in `src/pages` into pages
* Plugins can also implement `createPages` and create pages for you

You can also implement the API [`onCreatePage`](/docs/node-apis/#onCreatePage)
to modify pages created in core or plugins or to create client-only pages.

## Debugging help

To see what pages are being created by your code or plugins, you can query for
page information while developing in Graph*i*QL. Paste the following query in
the Graph*i*QL IDE for your site. The Graph*i*QL IDE is available when running
your sites development server at `HOST:PORT/___graphql` e.g.
`localhost:8000/___graphql`.

```graphql
{
  allSitePage {
    edges {
      node {
        path
        component
        pluginCreator {
          name
          pluginFilepath
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can also query for any `context` data you or plugins added to pages.

## Creating pages in gatsby-node.js

Often you will need to programmatically create pages. For example, you have
markdown files where each should be a page.

This example assumes that each markdown page has a "path" set in the frontmatter
of the markdown file.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “createPages”. This is called once the
// data layer is bootstrapped to let plugins create pages from data.
exports.createPages = ({ boundActionCreators, graphql }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const blogPostTemplate = path.resolve(`src/templates/blog-post.js`);
    // Query for markdown nodes to use in creating pages.
    resolve(
      graphql(
        `
          {
            allMarkdownRemark(limit: 1000) {
              edges {
                node {
                  frontmatter {
                    path
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `
      ).then(result => {
        if (result.errors) {
          reject(result.errors);
        }

        // Create pages for each markdown file.
        result.data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.forEach(({ node }) => {
          const path = node.frontmatter.path;
          createPage({
            path,
            component: blogPostTemplate,
            // If you have a layout component at src/layouts/blog-layout.js
            layout: `blog-layout`,
            // In your blog post template's graphql query, you can use path
            // as a GraphQL variable to query for data from the markdown file.
            context: {
              path,
            },
          });
        });
      })
    );
  });
};
```

## Modifying pages created by core or plugins

Gatsby core and plugins can automatically create pages for you. Sometimes the
default isn't quite what you want and you need to modify the created page
objects.

### Removing trailing slashes

A common reason for needing to modify automatically created pages is to remove
trailing slashes.

To do this, in your site's `gatsby-node.js` add code similar to the following:

_Note: There's also a plugin that will remove all trailing slashes from pages automatically:
[gatsby-plugin-remove-trailing-slashes](/packages/gatsby-plugin-remove-trailing-slashes/)_.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage, deletePage } = boundActionCreators;
  return new Promise(resolve => {
    const oldPage = Object.assign({}, page);
    // Remove trailing slash unless page is /
    page.path = _path => (_path === `/` ? _path : _path.replace(/\/$/, ``));
    if (page.path !== oldPage.path) {
      // Replace new page with old page
      deletePage(oldPage);
      createPage(page);
    }
    resolve();
  });
};
```

### Creating client-only routes

If you're creating a "hybrid" Gatsby app with both statically rendered pages as
well as client-only routes (e.g. an app that combines marketing pages and your
app that lives under `/app/*`), you want to add code to your `gatsby-node.js`
like the following:

_Note: There's also a plugin that will set up the creation of client-paths automatically:
[gatsby-plugin-create-client-paths](/packages/gatsby-plugin-create-client-paths/)_.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = async ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  // page.matchPath is a special key that's used for matching pages
  // only on the client.
  if (page.path.match(/^\/app/)) {
    page.matchPath = "/app/:path";

    // Update the page.
    createPage(page);
  }
};
```

### Choosing the page layout

By default, all pages will use the layout found at `/layouts/index.js`.

You may wish to choose a custom layout for certain pages (such as removing
header and footer for landing pages). You can choose the layout component when
creating pages with the `createPage` action by adding a layout key to the page
object or modify pages created elsewhere using the `onCreatePage` API. All
components in the `/layouts/` directory are automatically available.

```javascript
// Implement the Gatsby API “onCreatePage”. This is
// called after every page is created.
exports.onCreatePage = async ({ page, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators;

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    if (page.path.match(/^\/landing-page/)) {
      // It's assumed that `landingPage.js` exists in the `/layouts/` directory
      page.layout = "landingPage";

      // Update the page.
      createPage(page);
    }

    resolve();
  });
};
```
