docs/docs/debugging-html-builds.md, before:

---
title: Debugging HTML Builds
---

Errors while building static HTML files generally happen for two reasons.

1. Some of your code references "browser globals" like window or document.  If
   this is your problem you should see an error above like "window is not
   defined".  To fix this, find the offending code and either a) check before
   calling the code if window is defined so the code doesn't run while gatsby
   is building (see code sample below) or b) if the code is in the render
   function of a React.js component, move that code into "componentDidMount"
   which ensures the code doesn't run unless it's in the browser.

2. Some other reason :-) #1 is the most common reason building static files
   fail. If it's another reason, you have to be a bit more creative in figuring
   out the problem.

## How to check if `window` is defined

```javascript
// Requiring function causes error during builds
// as the code tries to reference window
const module = require('module') // Error

// Wrap the require in check for window
if (typeof window !== `undefined`) {
  const module = require('module') // Error
}
```

## Fixing third-party modules

So, the worst has happened and you're using an NPM module that expects `window` to be defined.  You may be able to file an issue and get the module patched, but what to do in the mean time?

One solution is to [customize](../add-custom-webpack-config) your webpack configuration to replace the offending module with a dummy module during server rendering.

`gatsby-node.js` in the project root:
```js
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = ({ config, stage }) => {
  if (stage === 'build-html') {
    config.loader('null', {
      test: /bad-module/,
      loader: 'null-loader'
    })
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Updates debugging-html instructions (#2788)
includes note about how Gatsby treats all JS files listed in pages directory as page component so the file must export a string or react component

docs/docs/debugging-html-builds.md, after:

---
title: Debugging HTML Builds
---

Errors while building static HTML files generally happen for two reasons.

1. Some of your code references "browser globals" like window or document.  If
   this is your problem you should see an error above like "window is not
   defined".  To fix this, find the offending code and either a) check before
   calling the code if window is defined so the code doesn't run while gatsby
   is building (see code sample below) or b) if the code is in the render
   function of a React.js component, move that code into "componentDidMount"
   which ensures the code doesn't run unless it's in the browser.
   
2. Check that each of your JS files listed in your `pages` directory (and any sub-directories) are exporting either a React component or string.  Gatsby treats any JS file listed under the pages dir as a page component, so it must have a default export that's a component or string.

3. Some other reason :-) #1 is the most common reason building static files
   fail. If it's another reason, you have to be a bit more creative in figuring
   out the problem.

## How to check if `window` is defined

```javascript
// Requiring function causes error during builds
// as the code tries to reference window
const module = require('module') // Error

// Wrap the require in check for window
if (typeof window !== `undefined`) {
  const module = require('module') // Error
}
```

## Fixing third-party modules

So, the worst has happened and you're using an NPM module that expects `window` to be defined.  You may be able to file an issue and get the module patched, but what to do in the mean time?

One solution is to [customize](../add-custom-webpack-config) your webpack configuration to replace the offending module with a dummy module during server rendering.

`gatsby-node.js` in the project root:
```js
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = ({ config, stage }) => {
  if (stage === 'build-html') {
    config.loader('null', {
      test: /bad-module/,
      loader: 'null-loader'
    })
  }
}
```
