docs/docs/how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md, before:

---
title: How Gatsby Works with GitHub Pages
---

The easiest way to push a gatsby app to GitHub Pages is using a package called `gh-pages`.

`npm install gh-pages --save-dev`

## GitHub repository page

Add a `deploy` script to `package.json`

```
    {
        scripts: {
            "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public",
        }
    }
```

We are using prefix paths because our website is inside a folder `http://username.github.io/reponame/` so we need to add pathPrefix to `gatsby-config.js`

```
{
    pathPrefix: "/reponame"
}
```

When you run `npm run deploy` all contents of `public` folder will be moved to your repositories `gh-pages` branch.

## GitHub Organization or User page

First thing is to create a repository which should be named `username.github.io`.

In this case we dont need to specify `pathPrefix`, but our website needs to be pushed to `master` branch.

```
    {
        scripts: {
            ...
            "deploy": "gatsby build && gh-pages -d public -b master",
        }
    }
```

After running `npm run deploy` you should see your website at `http://username.github.io`

## Custom domains

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites. Also don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

Commit message:

Update how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md (#5786)
* Update how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md

added clarification as if the gh-pages branch has not been created and set as the source for github pages then the above instructions for publishing to github repository page won't work.

* Fix old typos

docs/docs/how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md, after:

---
title: How Gatsby Works with GitHub Pages
---

The easiest way to push a gatsby app to GitHub Pages is using a package called `gh-pages`.

`npm install gh-pages --save-dev`

## GitHub repository page

Add a `deploy` script to `package.json`

```
    {
        scripts: {
            "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public",
        }
    }
```

We are using prefix paths because our website is inside a folder `http://username.github.io/reponame/` so we need to add pathPrefix to `gatsby-config.js`

```
{
    pathPrefix: "/reponame"
}
```

When you run `npm run deploy` all contents of the `public` folder will be moved to your repository's `gh-pages` branch.  Make sure that your repository's settings has the `gh-pages` branch set as the source.

## GitHub Organization or User page

First thing is to create a repository which should be named `username.github.io`.

In this case we dont need to specify `pathPrefix`, but our website needs to be pushed to `master` branch.

```
    {
        scripts: {
            ...
            "deploy": "gatsby build && gh-pages -d public -b master",
        }
    }
```

After running `npm run deploy` you should see your website at `http://username.github.io`

## Custom domains

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites. Also don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.
