docs/docs/image-tutorial.md, before:

## The Gatsby Way™ of rendering images 

Using images pulled from a WordPress demo CMS

### What this tutorial covers:

In this tutorial, you will install the several image plugins and components in order to pull image data from a WordPress account into your Gatsby site and render that data. This [Gatsby + Wordpress demo site](https://using-wordpress.gatsbyjs.org/sample-post-1) shows you a sample of what you’re going to be building in this tutorial, although in this tutorial you’ll just focus on adding images.

### Why go through this tutorial? 

Images are one of the most beautiful and striking ways to communicate to people, and are a key part of creating an effective and positive user experience; at the same time, high quality images can load slowly and cause text boxes to jump around, both of which make it difficult for people to be patient with visiting your website.

The Gatsby Way™ of creating images is a phrase we made up to describe a set of best practices that help you optimize performance and responsiveness of images. This [Gatsbygram site](https://gatsbygram.gatsbyjs.org/) (an Instagram feed fed through Gatsby) shows off the svg image tracing effect. Here’s an [image processing demo site](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) exploring how to have fun with images in your Gatsby site.

### Installing the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin

First you’ll need to install the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin that has images ready for you to pull into your site.

Create a new Gatsby project and change directories into the new project you just created:
```shell
gatsby new images-tutorial-site
cd images-tutorial-site
```

Install the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin. For extra reading on the plugin’s features and examples of GraphQL queries not included in this tutorial, see the [`gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin’s READme file](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/?=wordpress).

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-source-wordpress
```

Add the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin to `gatsby-config.js` using the following code, which you can also find in the [demo site’s source code](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/examples/using-wordpress/gatsby-config.js). 

```javascript{32-58}
 module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: 'Gatsby Wordpress Tutorial',
  },
  plugins: [
    // https://public-api.wordpress.com/wp/v2/sites/gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com/pages/
    /*
     * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
     * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
     */
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-wordpress`,
      options: {
        /*
        * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailingslash and the protocol. This is required.
        * Example : 'gatsbyjswpexample.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
        */
        baseUrl: `dev-gatbsyjswp.pantheonsite.io`,
        // The protocol. This can be http or https.
        protocol: `http`,
        // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
        // If false, then the assumption is made that the site is self hosted.
        // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
        // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
        hostingWPCOM: false,
        // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
        // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com
        useACF: true,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

### Installing plugins to help with images
Now you’ll configure gatsby-source-filesystem to load the image directory, add a GraphQL query to a page, add an image to the page, and then view the result in the browser.
First, you’ll need to install a few plugins and their dependencies:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-image
```

Place these plugins in your `gatsby-config.js` like this:

```javascript{112-121}
module.exports = {
 siteMetadata: {
   title: 'Gatsby Wordpress Tutorial',
 },
 plugins: [
   // https://public-api.wordpress.com/wp/v2/sites/gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com/pages/
   /*
    * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
    * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
    */
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-wordpress`,
     options: {
       /*
       * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailing slash and the protocol. This is required.
       * Example : 'gatsbyjswpexample.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
       */
       baseUrl: `dev-gatbsyjswp.pantheonsite.io`,
       // The protocol. This can be http or https.
       protocol: `http`,
       // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
       // If false, then the asumption is made that the site is self hosted.
       // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
       // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
       hostingWPCOM: false,
       // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
       // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com
       useACF: true,
     },
   },
   'gatsby-plugin-react-helmet',
   'gatsby-transformer-sharp',
   'gatsby-plugin-sharp',
 ],
}
```

### Creating GraphQL queries that pull in images from WordPress

Now you are ready to create a GraphQL query to pull in some images from the WordPress site.

Run:

```shell
gatsby develop
```

Open localhost:8000 and localhost:8000/___graphql. 

Here’s an example of creating specific widths and heights for images:

```jsx
{
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
          photo {
            localFile {
              childImageSharp {
                  # Try editing the "width" and "height" values.
                  resolutions(width: 200, height: 200) {
                  # In the GraphQL explorer, use field names
                  # like "src". In your site's code, remove them
                  # and use the fragments provided by Gatsby.
                  src
                  
                  # This fragment won't work in the GraphQL
                  # explorer, but you can use it in your site.
                  # ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


Here’s an example query for generating different sizes of an image:

```jsx
{
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
          photo {
            localFile {
              childImageSharp {
                # Try editing the "maxWidth" value to generate resized images.
                sizes(maxWidth: 500) {
                  # In the GraphQL explorer, use field names
                  # like "src". In your site's code, remove them
                  # and use the fragments provided by Gatsby.
                  src
                  
                  # This fragment won't work in the GraphQL
                  # explorer, but you can use it in your site
                  # ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

In either case, you can add traced SVG support by adding `_tracedSVG` to the end of each fragment. _Note this won’t work in the GraphQL explorer._

### Rendering the images to `index.js`

Here is what your `index.js` should look like with the query added:

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import Link from 'gatsby-link'
import Img from 'gatsby-image'

const IndexPage = ({ data }) => {
  const imagesResolutions = data.allWordpressPost.edges.map(
    edge =>
      edge.node.childWordPressAcfPostPhoto.photo.localFile.childImageSharp
        .resolutions
  )
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hi people</h1>
      <p>Welcome to your new Gatsby site.</p>
      <p>Now go build something great.</p>
      {imagesResolutions.map(imageRes => (
        <Img resolutions={imageRes} key={imageRes.src} />
      ))}
      <Link to="/page-2/">Go to page 2</Link>
    </div>
  )
}

export default IndexPage

export const query = graphql`
  query ImageQuery {
    allWordpressPost {
      edges {
        node {
          childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
            photo {
              localFile {
                childImageSharp {
                  # edit the maxWidth value to generate resized images
                  resolutions(width: 500, height: 500) {
                    ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_tracedSVG
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Your demo site should look something like this:

![Demo site example](./images/wordpress-image-tutorial.gif)

### Testing your image loading speed and effects
It is useful and can be fun to purposefully slow down your browser to see image effects animate more slowly.

Open your browser console and change the network speed to something slower. In Chrome, you can click on the “network” tab, then on the drop down arrow next to the word “Online.” Then click “Slow 3G.” Now, reload your page and watch the blur-up and SVG effects in action. The network tab also shows statistics on when each image loaded and how much time it took them to load.

![Network](./images/network.png)

![Slow 3G](./images/slow-3g.png)

Commit message:

blogpost about workshop resources (#5614)
* blogpost about workshop resources

@calcsam I'm thinking it'd be really awesome to actually link to googledocs instead of pdf files, because it'd be easier for people to just make copies and edit it themselves? Unless we really don't want that...

Also, I'm trying to figure out how to download the surveys as pdfs.

* header

* Ryan details

* link to docs project and tutorial

* New links!

* Update image links

* fix casing of image extensions

* adding links to new tutorials

check if WP link works

* Last changes, hopefully

Added image tutorial and list of new tutorials to article

* Update index.md

Address my and @m-allston's feedback

docs/docs/image-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: "Adding Images to a WordPress Site"
---

## What this tutorial covers:

In this tutorial, you will install the several image plugins and components in order to pull image data from a WordPress account into your Gatsby site and render that data. This [Gatsby + Wordpress demo site](https://using-wordpress.gatsbyjs.org/sample-post-1) shows you a sample of what you’re going to be building in this tutorial, although in this tutorial you’ll just focus on adding images.

### Why go through this tutorial? 

Images are one of the most beautiful and striking ways to communicate to people, and are a key part of creating an effective and positive user experience; at the same time, high quality images can load slowly and cause text boxes to jump around, both of which make it difficult for people to be patient with visiting your website.

The Gatsby Way™ of creating images describes a set of best practices that help you optimize performance and responsiveness of images so that you can get the benefits of awesome images that don't slow down your site. This [Gatsbygram site](https://gatsbygram.gatsbyjs.org/) (an Instagram feed fed through Gatsby) shows off the svg image tracing effect. Here’s an [image processing demo site](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) exploring how to have fun with images in your Gatsby site.

### Installing the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin

First you’ll need to install the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin that has images ready for you to pull into your site.

Create a new Gatsby project and change directories into the new project you just created:
```shell
gatsby new images-tutorial-site
cd images-tutorial-site
```

Install the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin. For extra reading on the plugin’s features and examples of GraphQL queries not included in this tutorial, see the [`gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin’s READme file](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/?=wordpress).

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-source-wordpress
```

Add the `gatsby-source-wordpress` plugin to `gatsby-config.js` using the following code, which you can also find in the [demo site’s source code](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/examples/using-wordpress/gatsby-config.js). 

```javascript{32-58}
 module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: 'Gatsby Wordpress Tutorial',
  },
  plugins: [
    // https://public-api.wordpress.com/wp/v2/sites/gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com/pages/
    /*
     * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
     * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
     */
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-wordpress`,
      options: {
        /*
        * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailingslash and the protocol. This is required.
        * Example : 'gatsbyjswpexample.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
        */
        baseUrl: `dev-gatbsyjswp.pantheonsite.io`,
        // The protocol. This can be http or https.
        protocol: `http`,
        // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
        // If false, then the assumption is made that the site is self hosted.
        // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
        // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
        hostingWPCOM: false,
        // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
        // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com
        useACF: true,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

### Installing plugins to help with images
Now you’ll configure gatsby-source-filesystem to load the image directory, add a GraphQL query to a page, add an image to the page, and then view the result in the browser.
First, you’ll need to install a few plugins and their dependencies:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-image
```

Place these plugins in your `gatsby-config.js` like this:

```javascript{112-121}
module.exports = {
 siteMetadata: {
   title: 'Gatsby Wordpress Tutorial',
 },
 plugins: [
   // https://public-api.wordpress.com/wp/v2/sites/gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com/pages/
   /*
    * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
    * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
    */
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-wordpress`,
     options: {
       /*
       * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailing slash and the protocol. This is required.
       * Example : 'gatsbyjswpexample.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
       */
       baseUrl: `dev-gatbsyjswp.pantheonsite.io`,
       // The protocol. This can be http or https.
       protocol: `http`,
       // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
       // If false, then the asumption is made that the site is self hosted.
       // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
       // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
       hostingWPCOM: false,
       // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
       // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com
       useACF: true,
     },
   },
   'gatsby-plugin-react-helmet',
   'gatsby-transformer-sharp',
   'gatsby-plugin-sharp',
 ],
}
```

### Creating GraphQL queries that pull in images from WordPress

Now you are ready to create a GraphQL query to pull in some images from the WordPress site.

Run:

```shell
gatsby develop
```

Open localhost:8000 and localhost:8000/___graphql. 

Here’s an example of creating specific widths and heights for images:

```jsx
{
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
          photo {
            localFile {
              childImageSharp {
                  # Try editing the "width" and "height" values.
                  resolutions(width: 200, height: 200) {
                  # In the GraphQL explorer, use field names
                  # like "src". In your site's code, remove them
                  # and use the fragments provided by Gatsby.
                  src
                  
                  # This fragment won't work in the GraphQL
                  # explorer, but you can use it in your site.
                  # ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


Here’s an example query for generating different sizes of an image:

```jsx
{
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
          photo {
            localFile {
              childImageSharp {
                # Try editing the "maxWidth" value to generate resized images.
                sizes(maxWidth: 500) {
                  # In the GraphQL explorer, use field names
                  # like "src". In your site's code, remove them
                  # and use the fragments provided by Gatsby.
                  src
                  
                  # This fragment won't work in the GraphQL
                  # explorer, but you can use it in your site
                  # ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

In either case, you can add traced SVG support by adding `_tracedSVG` to the end of each fragment. _Note this won’t work in the GraphQL explorer._

### Rendering the images to `index.js`

Here is what your `index.js` should look like with the query added:

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import Link from 'gatsby-link'
import Img from 'gatsby-image'

const IndexPage = ({ data }) => {
  const imagesResolutions = data.allWordpressPost.edges.map(
    edge =>
      edge.node.childWordPressAcfPostPhoto.photo.localFile.childImageSharp
        .resolutions
  )
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hi people</h1>
      <p>Welcome to your new Gatsby site.</p>
      <p>Now go build something great.</p>
      {imagesResolutions.map(imageRes => (
        <Img resolutions={imageRes} key={imageRes.src} />
      ))}
      <Link to="/page-2/">Go to page 2</Link>
    </div>
  )
}

export default IndexPage

export const query = graphql`
  query ImageQuery {
    allWordpressPost {
      edges {
        node {
          childWordPressAcfPostPhoto {
            photo {
              localFile {
                childImageSharp {
                  # edit the maxWidth value to generate resized images
                  resolutions(width: 500, height: 500) {
                    ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_tracedSVG
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Your demo site should look something like this:

![Demo site example](./images/wordpress-image-tutorial.gif)

### Testing your image loading speed and effects
It is useful and can be fun to purposefully slow down your browser to see image effects animate more slowly.

Open your browser console and change the network speed to something slower. In Chrome, you can click on the “network” tab, then on the drop down arrow next to the word “Online.” Then click “Slow 3G.” Now, reload your page and watch the blur-up and SVG effects in action. The network tab also shows statistics on when each image loaded and how much time it took them to load.

![Network](./images/network.png)

![Slow 3G](./images/slow-3g.png)
