docs/docs/querying-with-graphql.md, before:

---
title: Querying data with GraphQL
---

There are many options for loading data into React components. One of the most
popular and powerful of these is a technology called
[GraphQL](http://graphql.org/).

GraphQL was invented at Facebook to help product engineers _pull_ needed data into
React components.

GraphQL is a **q**uery **l**anguage (the _QL_ part of its name). If you're
familiar with SQL, it works in a very similar way. Using a special syntax, you describe
the data you want in your component and then that data is given
to you.

Gatsby uses GraphQL to enable [page and layout
components](/docs/building-with-components/) to declare what data they and their
sub-components need. Then, Gatsby makes that data available in
the browser when needed by your components.

## Why is GraphQL so cool?

* Eliminate frontend data boilerplate — no need to worry about requesting & waiting for data. Just ask for the data you need with a GraphQL query and it'll show up when you need it
* Push frontend complexity into queries — many data transformations can be done at _build-time_ within your GraphQL queries
* It's the perfect data querying language for the often complex/nested data dependencies of modern applications
* Improve performance by removing data bloat — GraphQL is a big part of why Gatsby is so fast as it enables lazy-loading the exact data in the exact form each view needs

## What does a GraphQL query look like?

GraphQL lets you ask for the exact data you need. Queries look like JSON:

```graphql
{
  site {
    siteMetadata {
      title
    }
  }
}
```

Which returns this:

```json
{
  "site": {
    "siteMetadata": {
      "title": "A Gatsby site!"
    }
  }
}
```

A basic page component with a GraphQL query might look like this:

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>About {data.site.siteMetadata.title}</h1>
    <p>We're a very cool website you should return to often.</p>
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  query AboutQuery {
    site {
      siteMetadata {
        title
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

The result of the query is automatically inserted into your React component
on the `data` prop. GraphQL and Gatsby let you ask for data and then
immediately start using it.

## How to learn GraphQL

Your experience developing with Gatsby might be the first time you've seen GraphQL! We hope you love it as much
as we do and find it useful for all your projects.

When starting out with GraphQL, we recommend the following two tutorials:

* https://www.howtographql.com/
* http://graphql.org/learn/

[The official Gatsby tutorial](/tutorial/part-four/) also includes an introduction to using GraphQL specifically with Gatsby.

## How do GraphQL and Gatsby work together?

One of the great things about GraphQL is how flexible it is. People use GraphQL
with [many different programming languages](http://graphql.org/code/) and for web and native apps.

Most people run GraphQL on a server to respond live to requests for
data from clients. You define a schema (a schema is a formal way of describing
the shape of your data) for your GraphQL server and then your GraphQL resolvers
retrieve data from databases and/or other APIs.

Gatsby uses GraphQL at _build-time_ and _not_ for live
sites. This is unique, and it means you don't need to run additional services (e.g. a database
and node.js service) to use GraphQL for production websites.

Gatsby is a great framework for building apps so it's possible and encouraged
to pair Gatsby's native build-time GraphQL with GraphQL queries running against
a live GraphQL server from the browser.

## Where does Gatsby's GraphQL schema come from?

Most usages of GraphQL involve manually creating a GraphQL schema.

With Gatsby, we use plugins which fetch data from different sources. We then use that data
to automatically _infer_ a GraphQL schema.

If you give Gatsby data that looks like this:

```json
{
  "title": "A long long time ago"
}
```

Gatsby will create a schema that looks something like this:

```
title: String
```

This makes it easy to pull data from anywhere and immediately start writing
GraphQL queries against your data.

This _can_ cause confusion as some data sources allow you to define
a schema even when there's not any data added for parts or all of the schema. If parts of the data haven't been added, then those parts of the schema might not be recreated in Gatsby.

## Powerful data transformations

GraphQL enables another unique feature of Gatsby — it lets you control data transformations with arguments to your queries. Some examples follow.

### Formatting dates

People often store dates like "2018-01-05" but want to display the date in some other form like "January 5th, 2018". One way of doing this is to load a date-formatting JavaScript library into the browser. Or, with Gatsby's GraphQL layer, you can do the formatting at query-time like:

```graphql
{
  date(formatString: "MMMM Do, YYYY")
}
```

### Markdown

Gatsby has _transformer_ plugins which can transform data from one form to another. A common example is markdown. If you install [`gatsby-transformer-remark`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/), then in your queries, you can specify you want the transformed HTML version instead of markdown:

```graphql
markdownRemark {
  html
}
```

### Images

Gatsby has rich support for processing images. Responsive images are a big part of the modern web and typically involve creating 5+ sized thumbnails per photo. With Gatsby's [`gatsby-transformer-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-sharp/), you can _query_ your images for responsive versions. The query automatically creates all the needed responsive thumbnails and returns `src` and `srcSet` fields to add to your image element.

Combined with a special Gatsby image component, [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/), you have a very powerful set of primitives for building sites with images.

This is what a component using `gatsby-image` looks like:

```jsx
import React from "react";
import Img from "gatsby-image";

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
    <Img resolutions={data.file.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  query GatsbyImageSampleQuery {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "blog/avatars/kyle-mathews.jpeg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        # Specify the image processing specifications right in the query.
        # Makes it trivial to update as your page's design changes.
        resolutions(width: 125, height: 125) {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

See also the following blog posts:

* [Making Website Building Fun](/blog/2017-10-16-making-website-building-fun/)
* [Image Optimization Made Easy with Gatsby.js](https://medium.com/@kyle.robert.gill/ridiculously-easy-image-optimization-with-gatsby-js-59d48e15db6e)

## Advanced

### Fragments

Notice that in the above example for [querying images](#images), we used `...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions`, which is a GraphQL Fragment, a reusable set of fields for query composition. You can read more about them [here](http://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments).

If you wish to define your own fragments for use in your application, you can use named exports to export them in any Javascript file, and they will be automatically processed by Gatsby for use in your GraphQL queries.

For example if I put a fragment in a helper component, I can use that fragment in any other query:

```jsx
// src/components/PostItem.js

export const markdownFrontmatterFragment = graphql`
  fragment MarkdownFrontmatter on MarkdownRemark {
    frontmatter {
      path
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
    }
  }
`;
```

They can then be used in any GraphQL query after that!

```graphql
query PostByPath($path: String!) {
  markdownRemark(frontmatter: { path: { eq: $path } }) {
    ...MarkdownFrontmatter
  }
}
```

It’s good practice for your helper components to define and export a fragment for the data they need. For example, on your index page might map over all of your posts to show them in a list.

```jsx
// src/pages/index.jsx

import React from "react";

export default ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Index page</h1>
      <h4>{data.allMarkdownRemark.totalCount} Posts</h4>
      {data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.map(({ node }) => (
        <div key={node.id}>
          <h3>
            {node.frontmatter.title} <span>— {node.frontmatter.date}</span>
          </h3>
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
};

export const query = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    allMarkdownRemark {
      totalCount
      edges {
        node {
          id
          frontmatter {
            title
            date(formatString: "DD MMMM, YYYY")
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

If the index component becomes too large, you might want to refactor it into smaller components.

```jsx
// src/components/IndexPost.jsx

import React from "react";

export default ({ frontmatter: { title, date } }) => (
  <div>
    <h3>
      {title} <span>— {date}</span>
    </h3>
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  fragment IndexPostFragment on MarkdownRemark {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
    }
  }
`;
```

Now, we can use the component together with the exported fragment in our index page.

```jsx{28}
// src/pages/index.jsx

import React from "react";
import IndexPost from "../components/IndexPost";

export default ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <div>
		<h1>
        Index page
		</h1>
      <h4>{data.allMarkdownRemark.totalCount} Posts</h4>
      {data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.map(({ node }) => (
        <div key={node.id}>
          <IndexPost frontmatter={node.frontmatter} />
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
};

export const query = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    allMarkdownRemark {
      totalCount
      edges {
        node {
          ...IndexPostFragment
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

## Further reading

### Getting started with GraphQL

* http://graphql.org/learn/
* https://www.howtographql.com/
* https://reactjs.org/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html
* https://services.github.com/on-demand/graphql/

### Advanced readings on GraphQL

* [GraphQL specification](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/October2016/)
* [Interfaces and Unions](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/graphql-tour-interfaces-and-unions-7dd5be35de0d)
* [Relay Compiler (which Gatsby uses to process queries)](https://facebook.github.io/relay/docs/en/compiler-architecture.html)

Commit message:

docs: Clarify queries and Components (#4352)
* docs: Clarify queries and Components

GraphQL queries are only run when the Component is a
Page or Layout.

* Update querying-with-graphql.md

* Update querying-with-graphql.md

docs/docs/querying-with-graphql.md, after:

---
title: Querying data with GraphQL
---

There are many options for loading data into React components. One of the most
popular and powerful of these is a technology called
[GraphQL](http://graphql.org/).

GraphQL was invented at Facebook to help product engineers _pull_ needed data into
React components.

GraphQL is a **q**uery **l**anguage (the _QL_ part of its name). If you're
familiar with SQL, it works in a very similar way. Using a special syntax, you describe
the data you want in your component and then that data is given
to you.

Gatsby uses GraphQL to enable [page and layout
components](/docs/building-with-components/) to declare what data they and their
sub-components need. Then, Gatsby makes that data available in
the browser when needed by your components.

## Why is GraphQL so cool?

* Eliminate frontend data boilerplate — no need to worry about requesting & waiting for data. Just ask for the data you need with a GraphQL query and it'll show up when you need it
* Push frontend complexity into queries — many data transformations can be done at _build-time_ within your GraphQL queries
* It's the perfect data querying language for the often complex/nested data dependencies of modern applications
* Improve performance by removing data bloat — GraphQL is a big part of why Gatsby is so fast as it enables lazy-loading the exact data in the exact form each view needs

## What does a GraphQL query look like?

GraphQL lets you ask for the exact data you need. Queries look like JSON:

```graphql
{
  site {
    siteMetadata {
      title
    }
  }
}
```

Which returns this:

```json
{
  "site": {
    "siteMetadata": {
      "title": "A Gatsby site!"
    }
  }
}
```

A basic page component with a GraphQL query might look like this:

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>About {data.site.siteMetadata.title}</h1>
    <p>We're a very cool website you should return to often.</p>
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  query AboutQuery {
    site {
      siteMetadata {
        title
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

The result of the query is automatically inserted into your React component
on the `data` prop. GraphQL and Gatsby let you ask for data and then
immediately start using it.

*Note:* Queries are only executed from Page or Layout components. For other
components you'll want to use GraphQL [*fragments*](#fragments).

## How to learn GraphQL

Your experience developing with Gatsby might be the first time you've seen GraphQL! We hope you love it as much
as we do and find it useful for all your projects.

When starting out with GraphQL, we recommend the following two tutorials:

* https://www.howtographql.com/
* http://graphql.org/learn/

[The official Gatsby tutorial](/tutorial/part-four/) also includes an introduction to using GraphQL specifically with Gatsby.

## How do GraphQL and Gatsby work together?

One of the great things about GraphQL is how flexible it is. People use GraphQL
with [many different programming languages](http://graphql.org/code/) and for web and native apps.

Most people run GraphQL on a server to respond live to requests for
data from clients. You define a schema (a schema is a formal way of describing
the shape of your data) for your GraphQL server and then your GraphQL resolvers
retrieve data from databases and/or other APIs.

Gatsby uses GraphQL at _build-time_ and _not_ for live
sites. This is unique, and it means you don't need to run additional services (e.g. a database
and node.js service) to use GraphQL for production websites.

Gatsby is a great framework for building apps so it's possible and encouraged
to pair Gatsby's native build-time GraphQL with GraphQL queries running against
a live GraphQL server from the browser.

## Where does Gatsby's GraphQL schema come from?

Most usages of GraphQL involve manually creating a GraphQL schema.

With Gatsby, we use plugins which fetch data from different sources. We then use that data
to automatically _infer_ a GraphQL schema.

If you give Gatsby data that looks like this:

```json
{
  "title": "A long long time ago"
}
```

Gatsby will create a schema that looks something like this:

```
title: String
```

This makes it easy to pull data from anywhere and immediately start writing
GraphQL queries against your data.

This _can_ cause confusion as some data sources allow you to define
a schema even when there's not any data added for parts or all of the schema. If parts of the data haven't been added, then those parts of the schema might not be recreated in Gatsby.

## Powerful data transformations

GraphQL enables another unique feature of Gatsby — it lets you control data transformations with arguments to your queries. Some examples follow.

### Formatting dates

People often store dates like "2018-01-05" but want to display the date in some other form like "January 5th, 2018". One way of doing this is to load a date-formatting JavaScript library into the browser. Or, with Gatsby's GraphQL layer, you can do the formatting at query-time like:

```graphql
{
  date(formatString: "MMMM Do, YYYY")
}
```

### Markdown

Gatsby has _transformer_ plugins which can transform data from one form to another. A common example is markdown. If you install [`gatsby-transformer-remark`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/), then in your queries, you can specify you want the transformed HTML version instead of markdown:

```graphql
markdownRemark {
  html
}
```

### Images

Gatsby has rich support for processing images. Responsive images are a big part of the modern web and typically involve creating 5+ sized thumbnails per photo. With Gatsby's [`gatsby-transformer-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-sharp/), you can _query_ your images for responsive versions. The query automatically creates all the needed responsive thumbnails and returns `src` and `srcSet` fields to add to your image element.

Combined with a special Gatsby image component, [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/), you have a very powerful set of primitives for building sites with images.

This is what a component using `gatsby-image` looks like:

```jsx
import React from "react";
import Img from "gatsby-image";

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
    <Img resolutions={data.file.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  query GatsbyImageSampleQuery {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "blog/avatars/kyle-mathews.jpeg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        # Specify the image processing specifications right in the query.
        # Makes it trivial to update as your page's design changes.
        resolutions(width: 125, height: 125) {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

See also the following blog posts:

* [Making Website Building Fun](/blog/2017-10-16-making-website-building-fun/)
* [Image Optimization Made Easy with Gatsby.js](https://medium.com/@kyle.robert.gill/ridiculously-easy-image-optimization-with-gatsby-js-59d48e15db6e)

## Advanced

### Fragments

Notice that in the above example for [querying images](#images), we used `...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions`, which is a GraphQL Fragment, a reusable set of fields for query composition. You can read more about them [here](http://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments).

If you wish to define your own fragments for use in your application, you can use named exports to export them in any Javascript file, and they will be automatically processed by Gatsby for use in your GraphQL queries.

For example if I put a fragment in a helper component, I can use that fragment in any other query:

```jsx
// src/components/PostItem.js

export const markdownFrontmatterFragment = graphql`
  fragment MarkdownFrontmatter on MarkdownRemark {
    frontmatter {
      path
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
    }
  }
`;
```

They can then be used in any GraphQL query after that!

```graphql
query PostByPath($path: String!) {
  markdownRemark(frontmatter: { path: { eq: $path } }) {
    ...MarkdownFrontmatter
  }
}
```

It’s good practice for your helper components to define and export a fragment for the data they need. For example, on your index page might map over all of your posts to show them in a list.

```jsx
// src/pages/index.jsx

import React from "react";

export default ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Index page</h1>
      <h4>{data.allMarkdownRemark.totalCount} Posts</h4>
      {data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.map(({ node }) => (
        <div key={node.id}>
          <h3>
            {node.frontmatter.title} <span>— {node.frontmatter.date}</span>
          </h3>
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
};

export const query = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    allMarkdownRemark {
      totalCount
      edges {
        node {
          id
          frontmatter {
            title
            date(formatString: "DD MMMM, YYYY")
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

If the index component becomes too large, you might want to refactor it into smaller components.

```jsx
// src/components/IndexPost.jsx

import React from "react";

export default ({ frontmatter: { title, date } }) => (
  <div>
    <h3>
      {title} <span>— {date}</span>
    </h3>
  </div>
);

export const query = graphql`
  fragment IndexPostFragment on MarkdownRemark {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
    }
  }
`;
```

Now, we can use the component together with the exported fragment in our index page.

```jsx{28}
// src/pages/index.jsx

import React from "react";
import IndexPost from "../components/IndexPost";

export default ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <div>
		<h1>
        Index page
		</h1>
      <h4>{data.allMarkdownRemark.totalCount} Posts</h4>
      {data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.map(({ node }) => (
        <div key={node.id}>
          <IndexPost frontmatter={node.frontmatter} />
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
};

export const query = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    allMarkdownRemark {
      totalCount
      edges {
        node {
          ...IndexPostFragment
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

## Further reading

### Getting started with GraphQL

* http://graphql.org/learn/
* https://www.howtographql.com/
* https://reactjs.org/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html
* https://services.github.com/on-demand/graphql/

### Advanced readings on GraphQL

* [GraphQL specification](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/October2016/)
* [Interfaces and Unions](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/graphql-tour-interfaces-and-unions-7dd5be35de0d)
* [Relay Compiler (which Gatsby uses to process queries)](https://facebook.github.io/relay/docs/en/compiler-architecture.html)
