docs/tutorial/part-two/index.md, before:

---
title: Gatsby.js Tutorial Part Two
typora-copy-images-to: ./
---

Welcome to part two of the Gatsby tutorial!

In this part we're going to explore options for styling Gatsby websites and dive
deeper into using React components for building sites.

## Building with components

One of the big mental shifts you make when starting to build with components is
that now your CSS, HTML, and JavaScript are tightly coupled, often living even
within the same file.

While a seemingly simple change, it has profound implications for how you think
about building websites.

Take the example of creating a custom button. In the past you would
create a CSS class (perhaps `.primary-button`) with your custom styles and then
whenever you want to apply those styles e.g.

```html
<button class="primary-button">
  Click me
</button>
```

In the world of components, you instead create a `PrimaryButton` component with
your button styles and use it throughout your site like:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
<PrimaryButton>Click me</PrimaryButton>
```

Components become the base building blocks of your site. Instead of being
limited to what the browser provides e.g. `<button>`, you can easily create new
building blocks that elegantly meet the needs of your projects.

## Creating global styles

Every site has some sort of global style. This includes things like the site's
typography and background colors. These styles set the overall feel of the
site—much like the color and texture of a wall sets the overall feel of a room.

Often people will use something like Bootstrap or Foundation for their global
styles. The problem with these, however, is they're difficult to customize and
they're not designed to work well with React components.

So for this tutorial let's explore a JavaScript library called
[Typography.js](https://github.com/kyleamathews/typography.js) that generates
global styles and works particularly well with Gatsby and React.

### Typography.js

Typography.js is a JavaScript library which generates typographic CSS.

Instead of directly setting the `font-size` of different HTML elements, you tell
Typography.js things like your desired `baseFontSize` and `baseLineHeight` and
based on these, it generates the base CSS for all your elements.

This makes it trivial to change the font size of all elements on a site without
having to directly modify the dozens of CSS rules.

Using it looks something like this:

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";

const typography = new Typography({
  baseFontSize: "18px",
  baseLineHeight: 1.45,
  headerFontFamily: [
    "Avenir Next",
    "Helvetica Neue",
    "Segoe UI",
    "Helvetica",
    "Arial",
    "sans-serif",
  ],
  bodyFontFamily: ["Georgia", "serif"],
});
```

## Gatsby plugins

But before we can get back to building and trying out Typography.js, let's make
a quick diversion and talk about Gatsby plugins.

You're probably familiar with the idea of plugins. Many software systems support
adding custom plugins to add new functionality or even modify the core workings
of the software.

Gatsby plugins work the same way.

Community members (like you!) can contribute plugins (small amounts of
JavaScript code) that others can then use when building Gatsby sites.

There's already dozens of plugins! Check them out at the
[plugins section of the site](/docs/plugins/).

Our goal with Gatsby plugins is to make them easy to install and use. In almost every Gatsby site you
build, you will be installing plugins. While working through the rest of the
tutorial, you'll have many opportunities to practice installing and using
plugins.

## Installing your first Gatsby plugin

Let's start by creating a new site. At this point it probably makes sense to close the terminal window(s) you used to build tutorial-part-one so that you don't accidentally start building tutorial-part-two in the wrong place. If you don't close tutorial-part-one prior to building tutorial-part-two, you will see that tutorial-part-two appears at localhost:8001 instead of localhost:8000.

Similar to part one, open a new terminal window and run the following to create a new site:

```shell
gatsby new tutorial-part-two https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

This creates a new site with the following structure.

```shell
├── package.json
├── src
│   └── pages
│       └── index.js
```

This is the minimal setup for a Gatsby site.

To install a plugin, there are two steps. First, you install the plugin's NPM
package and second, you add the plugin to your site's `gatsby-config.js`.

Typography.js has a Gatsby plugin, so let's install that by running:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-typography
```

Next, in your code editor, create a file at the root of your project folder named `gatsby-config.js`.
This is where you add plugins along with other site configuration.

Copy the following into `gatsby-config.js`

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-typography`],
};
```

Gatsby reads the site's config file when starting. Here we tell it to look for a
plugin named `gatsby-plugin-typography`. Gatsby knows to look for plugins that
are NPM packages, so it will find the package we installed previously.

Now run `gatsby develop`. Once you load the site, if you inspect the generated
HTML using the Chrome developer tools, you'll see that the typography plugin
added a `<style>` element to the `<head>` element with its generated CSS.

![typography-styles](typography-styles.png)

Copy the following into your `src/pages/index.js` so we can better see the
effect of the typography CSS generated by Typography.js.

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Richard Hamming on Luck</h1>
    <div>
      <p>
        From Richard Hamming’s classic and must-read talk, “<a href="http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html">
          You and Your Research
        </a>”.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p>
          There is indeed an element of luck, and no, there isn’t. The prepared
          mind sooner or later finds something important and does it. So yes, it
          is luck.{" "}
          <em>
            The particular thing you do is luck, but that you do something is
            not.
          </em>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
    </div>
    <p>Posted April 09, 2011</p>
  </div>
);
```

Your site should now look like this:

![typography-not-centered](typography-not-centered.png)

Let's make a quick improvement. Many sites have a single column of text centered
in the middle of the page. To create this, add the following styles to the
`<div>` in `src/pages/index.js`.

```jsx{4}
import React from "react";

export default () =>
  <div style={{ margin: '3rem auto', maxWidth: 600 }}>
    <h1>Richard Hamming on Luck</h1>
    <div>
      <p>
        From Richard Hamming’s classic and must-read talk, “<a href="http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html">
          You and Your Research
        </a>”.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p>
          There is indeed an element of luck, and no, there isn’t. The prepared
          mind sooner or later finds something important and does it. So yes, it
          is luck.{" "}
          <em>
            The particular thing you do is luck, but that you do something is
            not.
          </em>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
    </div>
    <p>Posted April 09, 2011</p>
  </div>
```

![basic-typography-centered](typography-centered.png)

Ah, this is starting to look nice!

What we're seeing here is the default CSS Typography.js produces. We can easily
customize it, however. Let's do that.

In your site, create a new directory at `src/utils`. In that directory, create a file named
`typography.js`. In that file, add the following code.

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";

const typography = new Typography({ baseFontSize: "18px" });

export default typography;
```

Then set this module to be used by `gatsby-plugin-typography` as its config in
our `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript{2..9}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typography`,
      options: {
        pathToConfigModule: `src/utils/typography.js`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Stop `gatsby develop` by typing <kbd>Ctrl + c</kbd> into the terminal window where the development process has been running. Then, run `gatsby develop` again to restart it. This will allow our plugin change to take effect.

Now, all the text font sizes should be slightly bigger. Try changing the
`baseFontSize` to `24px` then `12px`. All elements get resized as their
`font-size` is based on the `baseFontSize`.

There are
[many themes available](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typography.js#published-typographyjs-themes)
for Typography.js. Let's try a couple. In your terminal at the root of your
site, run:

```shell
npm install --save typography-theme-bootstrap typography-theme-lawton
```

To use the Bootstrap theme, change your typography code to:

```javascript{2,4}
import Typography from "typography";
import bootstrapTheme from "typography-theme-bootstrap";

const typography = new Typography(bootstrapTheme)

export default typography
```

![typography-bootstrap](typography-bootstrap.png)

Themes can also add Google Fonts. The Lawton theme we installed along with the
Bootstrap theme does this. Replace your typography module code with the
following, then restart the dev server (necessary to load the new Google Fonts).

```javascript{2-3,5}
import Typography from "typography";
// import bootstrapTheme from "typography-theme-bootstrap"
import lawtonTheme from "typography-theme-lawton";

const typography = new Typography(lawtonTheme)

export default typography
```

![typography-lawton](typography-lawton.png)

Typography.js has more than 30 themes!
[Try them live](http://kyleamathews.github.io/typography.js) or check out
[the complete list](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typography.js#published-typographyjs-themes)

## Component CSS

Gatsby has a wealth of options available for styling components. In this tutorial, we'll explore
one very popular method: CSS Modules.

### CSS-in-JS

While we won't cover CSS-in-JS in this initial tutorial, we encourage you to explore CSS-in-JS libraries as these solve many of the problems with traditional CSS plus help make your React components even smarter. There are mini-tutorials for two libraries, [Glamor](/docs/glamor/) and [Styled Components](/docs/styled-components/). Check out the following resources for background reading on CSS-in-JS:

[Christopher "vjeux" Chedeau's 2014 presentation that sparked this movement](https://speakerdeck.com/vjeux/react-css-in-js)
as well as
[Mark Dalgleish's more recent post "A Unified Styling Language"](https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660).

### CSS Modules

Let's explore **CSS Modules**.

Quoting from
[the CSS Module homepage](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules):

> A **CSS Module** is a CSS file in which all class names and animation names
> are scoped locally by default.

CSS Modules is very popular as it lets you write CSS like normal but with a lot
more safety. The tool automatically makes class and animation names unique so
you don't have to worry about selector name collisions.

CSS Modules are highly recommended for those new to building with Gatsby (and
React in general).

Gatsby works out of the box with CSS Modules.

Let's build a page using CSS Modules.

First, let's create a new `Container` component which we'll use for each of the
CSS-in-JS examples. Create a `components` directory at `src/components` and
then, in this directory, create a file named `container.js` and paste the
following:

```javascript
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ margin: "3rem auto", maxWidth: 600 }}>{children}</div>
);
```

Then create a new component page by creating a file at
`src/pages/about-css-modules.js`:

```javascript
import React from "react";

import Container from "../components/container";

export default () => (
  <Container>
    <h1>About CSS Modules</h1>
    <p>CSS Modules are cool</p>
  </Container>
);
```

You'll notice we imported the `Container` component we just created.

Your page should now look like:

![css-modules-1](css-modules-1.png)

Let's create a list of people with names, avatars, and short latin
biographies.

First, let's create the file for the CSS at
`src/pages/about-css-modules.module.css`. You'll notice that the file name ends
with `.module.css` instead of `.css` like normal. This is how we tell Gatsby
that this CSS file should be processed as CSS modules.

Paste the following into the file:

```css
.user {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  margin: 0 auto 12px auto;
}

.user:last-child {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}

.avatar {
  flex: 0 0 96px;
  width: 96px;
  height: 96px;
  margin: 0;
}

.description {
  flex: 1;
  margin-left: 18px;
  padding: 12px;
}

.username {
  margin: 0 0 12px 0;
  padding: 0;
}

.excerpt {
  margin: 0;
}
```

Now import that file into the `about-css-modules.js` page we created earlier.
Also log the resulting import so we can see what the processed file looks like.

```javascript
import styles from "./about-css-modules.module.css";
console.log(styles);
```

If you open the developer console (using e.g. Firefox or Chrome's developer tools) in your browser, you'll see:

![css-modules-console](css-modules-console.png)

If you compare that to our CSS file, you'll see that each class is now a key in
the imported object pointing to a long string e.g. `avatar` points to
`about-css-modules-module---avatar----hYcv`. These are the class names CSS
Modules generates. They're guaranteed to be unique across your site. And because
you have to import them to use the classes, there's never any question about
where some CSS is being used.

Let's use our styles to create a `User` component.

Let's create the new component inline in the `about-css-modules.js` page
component. The general rule of thumb is this: if you use a component in multiple
places on a site, it should be in its own module file in the `components`
directory. But, if it's used only in one file, create it inline.

Modify `about-css-modules.js` so it looks like the following:

```jsx{6-17,23-30}
import React from "react";
import styles from "./about-css-modules.module.css";

import Container from "../components/container";

const User = props =>
  <div className={styles.user}>
    <img src={props.avatar} className={styles.avatar} alt="" />
    <div className={styles.description}>
      <h2 className={styles.username}>
        {props.username}
      </h2>
      <p className={styles.excerpt}>
        {props.excerpt}
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>

export default () =>
  <Container>
    <h1>About CSS Modules</h1>
    <p>CSS Modules are cool</p>
    <User
      username="Jane Doe"
      avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/adellecharles/128.jpg"
      excerpt="I'm Jane Doe. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit."
    />
    <User
      username="Bob Smith"
      avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/vladarbatov/128.jpg"
      excerpt="I'm Bob smith, a vertically aligned type of guy. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit."
    />
  </Container>
```

The finished page should now look like:

![css-modules-final](css-modules-final.png)

### Other CSS options

Gatsby supports almost every possible styling option (if there isn't a plugin
yet for your favorite CSS option,
[please contribute one!](/docs/how-to-contribute/))

* [Sass](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sass/)
* [Emotion](/packages/gatsby-plugin-emotion/)
* [JSS](/packages/gatsby-plugin-jss/)
* [Stylus](/packages/gatsby-plugin-stylus/)
* and more!

Now continue on to [Part Three](/tutorial/part-three/) of the tutorial.

Commit message:

index.md (#3638)
* index.md

I am not the only one who got this problem. I think some other junior leaner will do the same. My English is poor.If the idea is good, please change it to correct spelling and grammar.
here is the question link: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/1739

* Update index.md

docs/tutorial/part-two/index.md, after:

---
title: Gatsby.js Tutorial Part Two
typora-copy-images-to: ./
---

Welcome to part two of the Gatsby tutorial!

In this part we're going to explore options for styling Gatsby websites and dive
deeper into using React components for building sites.

## Building with components

One of the big mental shifts you make when starting to build with components is
that now your CSS, HTML, and JavaScript are tightly coupled, often living even
within the same file.

While a seemingly simple change, it has profound implications for how you think
about building websites.

Take the example of creating a custom button. In the past you would
create a CSS class (perhaps `.primary-button`) with your custom styles and then
whenever you want to apply those styles e.g.

```html
<button class="primary-button">
  Click me
</button>
```

In the world of components, you instead create a `PrimaryButton` component with
your button styles and use it throughout your site like:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
<PrimaryButton>Click me</PrimaryButton>
```

Components become the base building blocks of your site. Instead of being
limited to what the browser provides e.g. `<button>`, you can easily create new
building blocks that elegantly meet the needs of your projects.

## Creating global styles

Every site has some sort of global style. This includes things like the site's
typography and background colors. These styles set the overall feel of the
site—much like the color and texture of a wall sets the overall feel of a room.

Often people will use something like Bootstrap or Foundation for their global
styles. The problem with these, however, is they're difficult to customize and
they're not designed to work well with React components.

So for this tutorial let's explore a JavaScript library called
[Typography.js](https://github.com/kyleamathews/typography.js) that generates
global styles and works particularly well with Gatsby and React.

### Typography.js

Typography.js is a JavaScript library which generates typographic CSS.

Instead of directly setting the `font-size` of different HTML elements, you tell
Typography.js things like your desired `baseFontSize` and `baseLineHeight` and
based on these, it generates the base CSS for all your elements.

This makes it trivial to change the font size of all elements on a site without
having to directly modify the dozens of CSS rules.

Using it looks something like this:

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";

const typography = new Typography({
  baseFontSize: "18px",
  baseLineHeight: 1.45,
  headerFontFamily: [
    "Avenir Next",
    "Helvetica Neue",
    "Segoe UI",
    "Helvetica",
    "Arial",
    "sans-serif",
  ],
  bodyFontFamily: ["Georgia", "serif"],
});
```

## Gatsby plugins

But before we can get back to building and trying out Typography.js, let's make
a quick diversion and talk about Gatsby plugins.

You're probably familiar with the idea of plugins. Many software systems support
adding custom plugins to add new functionality or even modify the core workings
of the software.

Gatsby plugins work the same way.

Community members (like you!) can contribute plugins (small amounts of
JavaScript code) that others can then use when building Gatsby sites.

There's already dozens of plugins! Check them out at the
[plugins section of the site](/docs/plugins/).

Our goal with Gatsby plugins is to make them easy to install and use. In almost every Gatsby site you
build, you will be installing plugins. While working through the rest of the
tutorial, you'll have many opportunities to practice installing and using
plugins.

## Installing your first Gatsby plugin

Let's start by creating a new site. At this point it probably makes sense to close the terminal window(s) you used to build tutorial-part-one so that you don't accidentally start building tutorial-part-two in the wrong place. If you don't close tutorial-part-one prior to building tutorial-part-two, you will see that tutorial-part-two appears at localhost:8001 instead of localhost:8000.

Similar to part one, open a new terminal window and run the following to create a new site:

```shell
gatsby new tutorial-part-two https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

This creates a new site with the following structure.

```shell
├── package.json
├── src
│   └── pages
│       └── index.js
```

This is the minimal setup for a Gatsby site.

To install a plugin, there are two steps. First, you install the plugin's NPM
package and second, you add the plugin to your site's `gatsby-config.js`.

Typography.js has a Gatsby plugin, so let's install that by running:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-typography
```

Next, in your code editor, create a file at the root of your project folder named `gatsby-config.js`.
This is where you add plugins along with other site configuration.

Copy the following into `gatsby-config.js`

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-typography`],
};
```

Gatsby reads the site's config file when starting. Here we tell it to look for a
plugin named `gatsby-plugin-typography`. Gatsby knows to look for plugins that
are NPM packages, so it will find the package we installed previously.

Now run `gatsby develop`. Once you load the site, if you inspect the generated
HTML using the Chrome developer tools, you'll see that the typography plugin
added a `<style>` element to the `<head>` element with its generated CSS.

![typography-styles](typography-styles.png)

Copy the following into your `src/pages/index.js` so we can better see the
effect of the typography CSS generated by Typography.js.

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Richard Hamming on Luck</h1>
    <div>
      <p>
        From Richard Hamming’s classic and must-read talk, “<a href="http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html">
          You and Your Research
        </a>”.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p>
          There is indeed an element of luck, and no, there isn’t. The prepared
          mind sooner or later finds something important and does it. So yes, it
          is luck.{" "}
          <em>
            The particular thing you do is luck, but that you do something is
            not.
          </em>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
    </div>
    <p>Posted April 09, 2011</p>
  </div>
);
```

Your site should now look like this:

![typography-not-centered](typography-not-centered.png)

Let's make a quick improvement. Many sites have a single column of text centered
in the middle of the page. To create this, add the following styles to the
`<div>` in `src/pages/index.js`.

```jsx{4}
import React from "react";

export default () =>
  <div style={{ margin: '3rem auto', maxWidth: 600 }}>
    <h1>Richard Hamming on Luck</h1>
    <div>
      <p>
        From Richard Hamming’s classic and must-read talk, “<a href="http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html">
          You and Your Research
        </a>”.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p>
          There is indeed an element of luck, and no, there isn’t. The prepared
          mind sooner or later finds something important and does it. So yes, it
          is luck.{" "}
          <em>
            The particular thing you do is luck, but that you do something is
            not.
          </em>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
    </div>
    <p>Posted April 09, 2011</p>
  </div>
```

![basic-typography-centered](typography-centered.png)

Ah, this is starting to look nice!

What we're seeing here is the default CSS Typography.js produces. We can easily
customize it, however. Let's do that.

In your site, create a new directory at `src/utils`. In that directory, create a file named
`typography.js`. In that file, add the following code.

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";

const typography = new Typography({ baseFontSize: "18px" });

export default typography;
```

Then set this module to be used by `gatsby-plugin-typography` as its config in
our `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript{2..9}
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typography`,
      options: {
        pathToConfigModule: `src/utils/typography.js`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Stop `gatsby develop` by typing <kbd>Ctrl + c</kbd> into the terminal window where the development process has been running. Then, run `gatsby develop` again to restart it. This will allow our plugin change to take effect.

Now, all the text font sizes should be slightly bigger. Try changing the
`baseFontSize` to `24px` then `12px`. All elements get resized as their
`font-size` is based on the `baseFontSize`.

_Note that if you use `gatsby-plugin-typography` with the default starter, you'll need to delete the default index.css used by that starter as it overrides the Typography.js CSS_

There are
[many themes available](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typography.js#published-typographyjs-themes)
for Typography.js. Let's try a couple. In your terminal at the root of your
site, run:

```shell
npm install --save typography-theme-bootstrap typography-theme-lawton
```

To use the Bootstrap theme, change your typography code to:

```javascript{2,4}
import Typography from "typography";
import bootstrapTheme from "typography-theme-bootstrap";

const typography = new Typography(bootstrapTheme)

export default typography
```

![typography-bootstrap](typography-bootstrap.png)

Themes can also add Google Fonts. The Lawton theme we installed along with the
Bootstrap theme does this. Replace your typography module code with the
following, then restart the dev server (necessary to load the new Google Fonts).

```javascript{2-3,5}
import Typography from "typography";
// import bootstrapTheme from "typography-theme-bootstrap"
import lawtonTheme from "typography-theme-lawton";

const typography = new Typography(lawtonTheme)

export default typography
```

![typography-lawton](typography-lawton.png)

Typography.js has more than 30 themes!
[Try them live](http://kyleamathews.github.io/typography.js) or check out
[the complete list](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typography.js#published-typographyjs-themes)

## Component CSS

Gatsby has a wealth of options available for styling components. In this tutorial, we'll explore
one very popular method: CSS Modules.

### CSS-in-JS

While we won't cover CSS-in-JS in this initial tutorial, we encourage you to explore CSS-in-JS libraries as these solve many of the problems with traditional CSS plus help make your React components even smarter. There are mini-tutorials for two libraries, [Glamor](/docs/glamor/) and [Styled Components](/docs/styled-components/). Check out the following resources for background reading on CSS-in-JS:

[Christopher "vjeux" Chedeau's 2014 presentation that sparked this movement](https://speakerdeck.com/vjeux/react-css-in-js)
as well as
[Mark Dalgleish's more recent post "A Unified Styling Language"](https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660).

### CSS Modules

Let's explore **CSS Modules**.

Quoting from
[the CSS Module homepage](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules):

> A **CSS Module** is a CSS file in which all class names and animation names
> are scoped locally by default.

CSS Modules is very popular as it lets you write CSS like normal but with a lot
more safety. The tool automatically makes class and animation names unique so
you don't have to worry about selector name collisions.

CSS Modules are highly recommended for those new to building with Gatsby (and
React in general).

Gatsby works out of the box with CSS Modules.

Let's build a page using CSS Modules.

First, let's create a new `Container` component which we'll use for each of the
CSS-in-JS examples. Create a `components` directory at `src/components` and
then, in this directory, create a file named `container.js` and paste the
following:

```javascript
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ margin: "3rem auto", maxWidth: 600 }}>{children}</div>
);
```

Then create a new component page by creating a file at
`src/pages/about-css-modules.js`:

```javascript
import React from "react";

import Container from "../components/container";

export default () => (
  <Container>
    <h1>About CSS Modules</h1>
    <p>CSS Modules are cool</p>
  </Container>
);
```

You'll notice we imported the `Container` component we just created.

Your page should now look like:

![css-modules-1](css-modules-1.png)

Let's create a list of people with names, avatars, and short latin
biographies.

First, let's create the file for the CSS at
`src/pages/about-css-modules.module.css`. You'll notice that the file name ends
with `.module.css` instead of `.css` like normal. This is how we tell Gatsby
that this CSS file should be processed as CSS modules.

Paste the following into the file:

```css
.user {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  margin: 0 auto 12px auto;
}

.user:last-child {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}

.avatar {
  flex: 0 0 96px;
  width: 96px;
  height: 96px;
  margin: 0;
}

.description {
  flex: 1;
  margin-left: 18px;
  padding: 12px;
}

.username {
  margin: 0 0 12px 0;
  padding: 0;
}

.excerpt {
  margin: 0;
}
```

Now import that file into the `about-css-modules.js` page we created earlier.
Also log the resulting import so we can see what the processed file looks like.

```javascript
import styles from "./about-css-modules.module.css";
console.log(styles);
```

If you open the developer console (using e.g. Firefox or Chrome's developer tools) in your browser, you'll see:

![css-modules-console](css-modules-console.png)

If you compare that to our CSS file, you'll see that each class is now a key in
the imported object pointing to a long string e.g. `avatar` points to
`about-css-modules-module---avatar----hYcv`. These are the class names CSS
Modules generates. They're guaranteed to be unique across your site. And because
you have to import them to use the classes, there's never any question about
where some CSS is being used.

Let's use our styles to create a `User` component.

Let's create the new component inline in the `about-css-modules.js` page
component. The general rule of thumb is this: if you use a component in multiple
places on a site, it should be in its own module file in the `components`
directory. But, if it's used only in one file, create it inline.

Modify `about-css-modules.js` so it looks like the following:

```jsx{6-17,23-30}
import React from "react";
import styles from "./about-css-modules.module.css";

import Container from "../components/container";

const User = props =>
  <div className={styles.user}>
    <img src={props.avatar} className={styles.avatar} alt="" />
    <div className={styles.description}>
      <h2 className={styles.username}>
        {props.username}
      </h2>
      <p className={styles.excerpt}>
        {props.excerpt}
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>

export default () =>
  <Container>
    <h1>About CSS Modules</h1>
    <p>CSS Modules are cool</p>
    <User
      username="Jane Doe"
      avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/adellecharles/128.jpg"
      excerpt="I'm Jane Doe. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit."
    />
    <User
      username="Bob Smith"
      avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/vladarbatov/128.jpg"
      excerpt="I'm Bob smith, a vertically aligned type of guy. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit."
    />
  </Container>
```

The finished page should now look like:

![css-modules-final](css-modules-final.png)

### Other CSS options

Gatsby supports almost every possible styling option (if there isn't a plugin
yet for your favorite CSS option,
[please contribute one!](/docs/how-to-contribute/))

* [Sass](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sass/)
* [Emotion](/packages/gatsby-plugin-emotion/)
* [JSS](/packages/gatsby-plugin-jss/)
* [Stylus](/packages/gatsby-plugin-stylus/)
* and more!

Now continue on to [Part Three](/tutorial/part-three/) of the tutorial.
