packages/gatsby-transformer-json/README.md, before:

# gatsby-transformer-json

Parses JSON files. Supports arrays of objects and single objects.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-transformer-json`

You also need to have `gatsby-source-filesystem` installed and configured so it points to your files.

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-transformer-json`,
]
```

## Parsing algorithm

You can choose to structure your data as arrays of objects in individual files
or as single objects spread across multiple files.

### Array of Objects

The algorithm for arrays is to convert each item in the array into
a node.

So if your project has a `letters.json` with `[{ "value": "a" }, { "value":
"b" }, { "value": "c" }]` then the following three nodes would be created.

```javascript
[
  { value: 'a', type: 'Letters' },
  { value: 'b', type: 'Letters' },
  { value: 'c', type: 'Letters' },
]
```

### Single Object

The algorithm for single JSON objects is to convert the object defined at the
root of the file into a node. The type of the node is based on the name of the
parent directory.

For example, lets say your project has a data layout like:

```
data/
    letters/
        a.json
        b.json
        c.json
```

Where each of `a.json`, `b.json` and `c.json` look like:

```javascript
{ 'value': 'a' }
```

```javascript
{ 'value': 'b' }
```

```javascript
{ 'value': 'c' }
```

Then the following three nodes would be created.

```javascript
[
  {
    value: 'a',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
  {
    value: 'b',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
  {
    value: 'c',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
]
```

## How to query

Regardless of whether you choose to structure your data in arrays of objects or
single objects, you'd be able to query your letters like:

```graphql
{
  allLettersJson {
    edges {
      node {
        value
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Which would return:

```javascript
{
  allLettersJson: {
    edges: [
      {
        node: {
          value: 'a'
        }
      },
      {
        node: {
          value: 'b'
        }
      },
      {
        node: {
          value: 'c'
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Clarify transformer is just for raw JSON strings

packages/gatsby-transformer-json/README.md, after:

# gatsby-transformer-json

Parses raw JSON strings into JavaScript objects e.g. from JSON files. Supports arrays of objects and single objects.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-transformer-json`

You also need to have `gatsby-source-filesystem` installed and configured so it points to your files.

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-transformer-json`,
]
```

## Parsing algorithm

You can choose to structure your data as arrays of objects in individual files
or as single objects spread across multiple files.

### Array of Objects

The algorithm for arrays is to convert each item in the array into
a node.

So if your project has a `letters.json` with `[{ "value": "a" }, { "value":
"b" }, { "value": "c" }]` then the following three nodes would be created.

```javascript
[
  { value: 'a', type: 'Letters' },
  { value: 'b', type: 'Letters' },
  { value: 'c', type: 'Letters' },
]
```

### Single Object

The algorithm for single JSON objects is to convert the object defined at the
root of the file into a node. The type of the node is based on the name of the
parent directory.

For example, lets say your project has a data layout like:

```
data/
    letters/
        a.json
        b.json
        c.json
```

Where each of `a.json`, `b.json` and `c.json` look like:

```javascript
{ 'value': 'a' }
```

```javascript
{ 'value': 'b' }
```

```javascript
{ 'value': 'c' }
```

Then the following three nodes would be created.

```javascript
[
  {
    value: 'a',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
  {
    value: 'b',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
  {
    value: 'c',
    type: 'Letters',
  },
]
```

## How to query

Regardless of whether you choose to structure your data in arrays of objects or
single objects, you'd be able to query your letters like:

```graphql
{
  allLettersJson {
    edges {
      node {
        value
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Which would return:

```javascript
{
  allLettersJson: {
    edges: [
      {
        node: {
          value: 'a'
        }
      },
      {
        node: {
          value: 'b'
        }
      },
      {
        node: {
          value: 'c'
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
