packages/gatsby-source-medium/README.md, before:

# gatsby-source-medium

Source plugin for pulling data into Gatsby from an unofficial Medium JSON
endpoint. Unfortunately the JSON endpoint does not provide the complete stories,
but only previews. If you need the complete stories, you might have a look at
something like
[gatsby-source-rss](https://github.com/jondubin/gatsby-source-rss).

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-medium`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-source-medium`,
    options: {
      username: `username/publication`,
    },
  },
];
```

## How to query

Get all posts with the preview image ID and the author's name:

```graphql
query StoriesQuery {
  allMediumPost(sort: { fields: [createdAt], order: DESC }) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        virtuals {
          subtitle
          previewImage {
            imageId
          }
        }
        author {
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Get all users with their posts:

```graphql
query StoriesQuery {
  allMediumUser {
    edges {
      node {
        name
        posts {
          title
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

[gatsby-source-medium] fetch users and publications (#3623)
* Add support for fetching a users payload along with publications from Medium

* Update gatsby-source-medium readme, add note for @ for usernames

* Undo any changes to `links` variable

packages/gatsby-source-medium/README.md, after:

# gatsby-source-medium

Source plugin for pulling data into Gatsby from an unofficial Medium JSON
endpoint. Unfortunately the JSON endpoint does not provide the complete stories,
but only previews. If you need the complete stories, you might have a look at
something like
[gatsby-source-rss](https://github.com/jondubin/gatsby-source-rss).

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-medium`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-source-medium`,
    options: {
      username: `username/publication`,
    },
  },
];
```
###### Note
Remember that if you are fetching a user, prepend your username with `@`.

## How to query

Get all posts with the preview image ID and the author's name:

```graphql
query StoriesQuery {
  allMediumPost(sort: { fields: [createdAt], order: DESC }) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        virtuals {
          subtitle
          previewImage {
            imageId
          }
        }
        author {
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Get all users with their posts:

```graphql
query StoriesQuery {
  allMediumUser {
    edges {
      node {
        name
        posts {
          title
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
