packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/README.md, before:

# gatsby-source-wordpress

Source plugin for pulling data into [Gatsby](https://github.com/gatsbyjs) from WordPress sites using the [WordPress JSON REST API](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/).

An example site for this plugin is available.

* [Demo](https://using-wordpress.gatsbyjs.org/)
* [Example site source code](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/using-wordpress)

## Features

- Pulls data from self-hosted WordPress sites, hosted on wordpress.com or wordpress.org
- Should work with any number of article and post (tested on a site with 900 posts)
- Can authenticate to wordpress.com's API using OAuth 2 so media can be queried
- Easily create responsive images in Gatsby from WordPress images using  `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and  `gatsby-plugin-sharp` in your `gatsby-config.js`

## WordPress and custom entities

This module currently pulls from WordPress the following entities:
- [x] All entities are supported (posts, pages, tags, categories, media, types, users, statuses, taxonomies, ...)
- [x] Any new entity should be pulled as long the IDs are correct.
- [x] [ACF Entities (Advanced Custom Fields)](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/)
- [x] Custom post types (any type you could have declared using WordPress' `functions.php`)

We welcome PRs adding support for data from other plugins.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-wordpress`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
  plugins: [
    /*
     * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
     * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
     */
    {
      resolve: 'gatsby-source-wordpress',
      options: {
         /*
        * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailingslash and the protocol. This is required.
        * Example : 'gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
        */
        baseUrl: 'gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com',
        // The protocol. This can be http or https.
        protocol: 'http',
        // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
        // If false, then the asumption is made that the site is self hosted.
        // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
        // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
        hostingWPCOM: true,
        // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
        // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com.
        // Defaults to true.
        useACF: true,
        auth: {
          // If auth.user and auth.pass are filled, then the source plugin will be allowed
          // to access endpoints that are protected with .htaccess.
          htaccess_user: 'your-htaccess-username',
          htaccess_pass: 'your-htaccess-password',
          htaccess_sendImmediately: false,

          // If hostingWPCOM is true then you will need to communicate with wordpress.com API
          // in order to do that you need to create an app (of type Web) at https://developer.wordpress.com/apps/
          // then add your clientId, clientSecret, username, and password here
          wpcom_app_clientSecret: 'NMPnXYFtj2gKas7V1kZyMxr7oLry9V5ZxIyBQGu2txjVHg0GhFz6RYcKopkHICYg',
          wpcom_app_clientId: '54793',
          wpcom_user: 'gatsbyjswpexample@gmail.com',
          wpcom_pass: 'very-secured-password',
        },
        // Set verboseOutput to true to display a verbose output on `npm run develop` or `npm run build`
        // It can help you debug specific API Endpoints problems
        verboseOutput: false,
      },
    },
  ]
```

## WordPress Plugins

These plugins were tested. We welcome PRs adding support for data from other plugins.

- [x] Custom Post Types : it will work seemlessly, no further option needs to be activated.

- [x] [ACF](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/) The option `useACF: true` must be activated in your site's `gatsby-config.js`.
  *  You must have the plugin [acf-to-rest-api](https://github.com/airesvsg/acf-to-rest-api) installed in WordPress.
  *  Will pull the `acf: { ... }` fields's contents from any entity which has it attached (pages, posts, medias, ... you choose from in WordPress back-end while creating a Group of Fields).
  *  [ACF Pro](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/) same as ACF : 
  *  Will work with [Flexible content](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/flexible-content/) and premium stuff like that (repeater, gallery, ...).
  *  Will pull the content attached to the [options page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/add-ons/options-page/).

- [x] [WP-API-MENUS](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-api-menus/) which gives you the menus and menu locations endpoint.


## How to use Gatsby with Wordpress.com hosting

Set `hostingWPCOM: true`.

You will need to provide an (API Key)[https://en.support.wordpress.com/api-keys/].

Note : you don't need this for Wordpress.org hosting in which your WordPress will behave like a self-hosted instance.

## How to query

You can query nodes created from Wordpress using GraphQL like the following:
Note : Learn to use the GraphQL tool and Ctrl+Spacebar at http://localhost:3000/___graphiql to discover the types and properties of your GraphQL model.

### Query posts
```graphql
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        slug
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query pages
```graphql
  allWordpressPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        slug
        status
      }
    }
  }
```

Same thing for other type of entity (tag, media, categories, ...).

### Query any other entity
In the following example, `${Manufacturer}` will be replaced by the endpoint prefix and `${Endpoint}` by the name of the endpoint.

To know what's what, check the URL of the endpoint. You can set `verboseOutput: true` in order to get more information of what's executed by the source plugin behind the scene.

For example the following URL: `http://my-blog.wordpress.com/wp-json/acf/v2/options`
  * Manufacturer : `acf`
  * Endpoint : `options`
  * Final GraphQL Type : AllWordpressAcfOptions

For example the following URL: `http://my-blog.wordpress.com/wp-api-menus/v2/menu-locations`
  * Manufacturer : `wpapimenus`
  * Endpoint : `menulocations`
  * Final GraphQL Type : AllWordpressWpApiMenusMenuLocations

```graphql
  allWordpress${Manufacturer}${Endpoint} {
    edges {
      node {
        id
       type
        // Put your fields here
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query posts with the child ACF Fields Node
Mention the apparition of `childWordpressAcfField` in the query below :
```graphql
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        slug
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        author
        featured_media
        template
        categories
        tags
        acf {
         // use ___GraphiQL debugger and Ctrl+Spacebar to describe your model.
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query pages with the child ACF Fields Node
Mention the apparition of `childWordpressAcfField` in the query below :
```graphql
  allWordpressPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        slug
        author
        featured_media
        template
        acf {
         // use ___GraphiQL debugger and Ctrl+Spacebar to describe your model.
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

## Site's `gatsby-node.js` example

```javascript
const _ = require(`lodash`)
const Promise = require(`bluebird`)
const path = require(`path`)
const slash = require(`slash`)

// Implement the Gatsby API “createPages”. This is
// called after the Gatsby bootstrap is finished so you have
// access to any information necessary to programmatically
// create pages.
// Will create pages for WordPress pages (route : /{slug})
// Will create pages for WordPress posts (route : /post/{slug})
exports.createPages = ({ graphql, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    // The “graphql” function allows us to run arbitrary
    // queries against the local WordPress graphql schema. Think of
    // it like the site has a built-in database constructed
    // from the fetched data that you can run queries against.

    // ==== PAGES (WORDPRESS NATIVE) ====
    graphql(
      `
      {

          allWordpressPage {
            edges {
              node {
                id
                slug
                status
                template
              }
            }
          }

      }
    `
    )
      .then(result => {
        if (result.errors) {
          console.log(result.errors)
          reject(result.errors)
        }

        // Create Page pages.
        const pageTemplate = path.resolve('./src/templates/page.js')
        // We want to create a detailed page for each
        // page node. We'll just use the WordPress Slug for the slug.
        // The Page ID is prefixed with 'PAGE_'
        _.each(result.data.allWordpressPage.edges, edge => {
          // Gatsby uses Redux to manage its internal state.
          // Plugins and sites can use functions like "createPage"
          // to interact with Gatsby.
          createPage({
            // Each page is required to have a `path` as well
            // as a template component. The `context` is
            // optional but is often necessary so the template
            // can query data specific to each page.
            path: `/${edge.node.slug}/`,
            component: slash(pageTemplate),
            context: {
              id: edge.node.id,
            },
          })
        })
      })
      // ==== END PAGES ====

      // ==== POSTS (WORDPRESS NATIVE AND ACF) ====
      .then(() => {
        graphql(
          `{
                  allWordpressPost {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        id
                        slug
                        status
                        template
                        format
                      }
                    }
                  }

                }
              `
        ).then(result => {
          if (result.errors) {
            console.log(result.errors)
            reject(result.errors)
          }
          const postTemplate = path.resolve('./src/templates/post.js')
        // We want to create a detailed page for each
        // post node. We'll just use the WordPress Slug for the slug.
        // The Post ID is prefixed with 'POST_'
          _.each(result.data.allWordpressPost.edges, edge => {
            createPage({
              path: `/${edge.node.slug}/`,
              component: slash(postTemplate),
              context: {
                id: edge.node.id,
              },
            })
          })
          resolve()
        })
      })
    // ==== END POSTS ====

  })
}
```

Commit message:

Note on the Plugin Custom Post Types UI (#2519)
Custom Post Types UI sets the custom post to not show in REST API by default, so this needs to be enabled in order for this to work.

packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/README.md, after:

# gatsby-source-wordpress

Source plugin for pulling data into [Gatsby](https://github.com/gatsbyjs) from WordPress sites using the [WordPress JSON REST API](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/).

An example site for this plugin is available.

* [Demo](https://using-wordpress.gatsbyjs.org/)
* [Example site source code](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/using-wordpress)

## Features

- Pulls data from self-hosted WordPress sites, hosted on wordpress.com or wordpress.org
- Should work with any number of article and post (tested on a site with 900 posts)
- Can authenticate to wordpress.com's API using OAuth 2 so media can be queried
- Easily create responsive images in Gatsby from WordPress images using  `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and  `gatsby-plugin-sharp` in your `gatsby-config.js`

## WordPress and custom entities

This module currently pulls from WordPress the following entities:
- [x] All entities are supported (posts, pages, tags, categories, media, types, users, statuses, taxonomies, ...)
- [x] Any new entity should be pulled as long the IDs are correct.
- [x] [ACF Entities (Advanced Custom Fields)](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/)
- [x] Custom post types (any type you could have declared using WordPress' `functions.php`)

We welcome PRs adding support for data from other plugins.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-wordpress`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
  plugins: [
    /*
     * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
     * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Wordpress.
     */
    {
      resolve: 'gatsby-source-wordpress',
      options: {
         /*
        * The base URL of the Wordpress site without the trailingslash and the protocol. This is required.
        * Example : 'gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com' or 'www.example-site.com'
        */
        baseUrl: 'gatsbyjsexamplewordpress.wordpress.com',
        // The protocol. This can be http or https.
        protocol: 'http',
        // Indicates whether the site is hosted on wordpress.com.
        // If false, then the asumption is made that the site is self hosted.
        // If true, then the plugin will source its content on wordpress.com using the JSON REST API V2.
        // If your site is hosted on wordpress.org, then set this to false.
        hostingWPCOM: true,
        // If useACF is true, then the source plugin will try to import the Wordpress ACF Plugin contents.
        // This feature is untested for sites hosted on Wordpress.com.
        // Defaults to true.
        useACF: true,
        auth: {
          // If auth.user and auth.pass are filled, then the source plugin will be allowed
          // to access endpoints that are protected with .htaccess.
          htaccess_user: 'your-htaccess-username',
          htaccess_pass: 'your-htaccess-password',
          htaccess_sendImmediately: false,

          // If hostingWPCOM is true then you will need to communicate with wordpress.com API
          // in order to do that you need to create an app (of type Web) at https://developer.wordpress.com/apps/
          // then add your clientId, clientSecret, username, and password here
          wpcom_app_clientSecret: 'NMPnXYFtj2gKas7V1kZyMxr7oLry9V5ZxIyBQGu2txjVHg0GhFz6RYcKopkHICYg',
          wpcom_app_clientId: '54793',
          wpcom_user: 'gatsbyjswpexample@gmail.com',
          wpcom_pass: 'very-secured-password',
        },
        // Set verboseOutput to true to display a verbose output on `npm run develop` or `npm run build`
        // It can help you debug specific API Endpoints problems
        verboseOutput: false,
      },
    },
  ]
```

## WordPress Plugins

These plugins were tested. We welcome PRs adding support for data from other plugins.

- [x] Custom Post Types : it will work seemlessly, no further option needs to be activated. ("Show in REST API" setting needs to be set to true on the custom post in the plugin settings for this to work. It's set to "false" by default.)

- [x] [ACF](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/) The option `useACF: true` must be activated in your site's `gatsby-config.js`.
  *  You must have the plugin [acf-to-rest-api](https://github.com/airesvsg/acf-to-rest-api) installed in WordPress.
  *  Will pull the `acf: { ... }` fields's contents from any entity which has it attached (pages, posts, medias, ... you choose from in WordPress back-end while creating a Group of Fields).
  *  [ACF Pro](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/) same as ACF : 
  *  Will work with [Flexible content](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/flexible-content/) and premium stuff like that (repeater, gallery, ...).
  *  Will pull the content attached to the [options page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/add-ons/options-page/).

- [x] [WP-API-MENUS](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-api-menus/) which gives you the menus and menu locations endpoint.


## How to use Gatsby with Wordpress.com hosting

Set `hostingWPCOM: true`.

You will need to provide an (API Key)[https://en.support.wordpress.com/api-keys/].

Note : you don't need this for Wordpress.org hosting in which your WordPress will behave like a self-hosted instance.

## How to query

You can query nodes created from Wordpress using GraphQL like the following:
Note : Learn to use the GraphQL tool and Ctrl+Spacebar at http://localhost:3000/___graphiql to discover the types and properties of your GraphQL model.

### Query posts
```graphql
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        slug
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query pages
```graphql
  allWordpressPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        slug
        status
      }
    }
  }
```

Same thing for other type of entity (tag, media, categories, ...).

### Query any other entity
In the following example, `${Manufacturer}` will be replaced by the endpoint prefix and `${Endpoint}` by the name of the endpoint.

To know what's what, check the URL of the endpoint. You can set `verboseOutput: true` in order to get more information of what's executed by the source plugin behind the scene.

For example the following URL: `http://my-blog.wordpress.com/wp-json/acf/v2/options`
  * Manufacturer : `acf`
  * Endpoint : `options`
  * Final GraphQL Type : AllWordpressAcfOptions

For example the following URL: `http://my-blog.wordpress.com/wp-api-menus/v2/menu-locations`
  * Manufacturer : `wpapimenus`
  * Endpoint : `menulocations`
  * Final GraphQL Type : AllWordpressWpApiMenusMenuLocations

```graphql
  allWordpress${Manufacturer}${Endpoint} {
    edges {
      node {
        id
       type
        // Put your fields here
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query posts with the child ACF Fields Node
Mention the apparition of `childWordpressAcfField` in the query below :
```graphql
  allWordpressPost {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        slug
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        author
        featured_media
        template
        categories
        tags
        acf {
         // use ___GraphiQL debugger and Ctrl+Spacebar to describe your model.
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

### Query pages with the child ACF Fields Node
Mention the apparition of `childWordpressAcfField` in the query below :
```graphql
  allWordpressPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        content
        excerpt
        date
        modified
        slug
        author
        featured_media
        template
        acf {
         // use ___GraphiQL debugger and Ctrl+Spacebar to describe your model.
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

## Site's `gatsby-node.js` example

```javascript
const _ = require(`lodash`)
const Promise = require(`bluebird`)
const path = require(`path`)
const slash = require(`slash`)

// Implement the Gatsby API “createPages”. This is
// called after the Gatsby bootstrap is finished so you have
// access to any information necessary to programmatically
// create pages.
// Will create pages for WordPress pages (route : /{slug})
// Will create pages for WordPress posts (route : /post/{slug})
exports.createPages = ({ graphql, boundActionCreators }) => {
  const { createPage } = boundActionCreators
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    // The “graphql” function allows us to run arbitrary
    // queries against the local WordPress graphql schema. Think of
    // it like the site has a built-in database constructed
    // from the fetched data that you can run queries against.

    // ==== PAGES (WORDPRESS NATIVE) ====
    graphql(
      `
      {

          allWordpressPage {
            edges {
              node {
                id
                slug
                status
                template
              }
            }
          }

      }
    `
    )
      .then(result => {
        if (result.errors) {
          console.log(result.errors)
          reject(result.errors)
        }

        // Create Page pages.
        const pageTemplate = path.resolve('./src/templates/page.js')
        // We want to create a detailed page for each
        // page node. We'll just use the WordPress Slug for the slug.
        // The Page ID is prefixed with 'PAGE_'
        _.each(result.data.allWordpressPage.edges, edge => {
          // Gatsby uses Redux to manage its internal state.
          // Plugins and sites can use functions like "createPage"
          // to interact with Gatsby.
          createPage({
            // Each page is required to have a `path` as well
            // as a template component. The `context` is
            // optional but is often necessary so the template
            // can query data specific to each page.
            path: `/${edge.node.slug}/`,
            component: slash(pageTemplate),
            context: {
              id: edge.node.id,
            },
          })
        })
      })
      // ==== END PAGES ====

      // ==== POSTS (WORDPRESS NATIVE AND ACF) ====
      .then(() => {
        graphql(
          `{
                  allWordpressPost {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        id
                        slug
                        status
                        template
                        format
                      }
                    }
                  }

                }
              `
        ).then(result => {
          if (result.errors) {
            console.log(result.errors)
            reject(result.errors)
          }
          const postTemplate = path.resolve('./src/templates/post.js')
        // We want to create a detailed page for each
        // post node. We'll just use the WordPress Slug for the slug.
        // The Post ID is prefixed with 'POST_'
          _.each(result.data.allWordpressPost.edges, edge => {
            createPage({
              path: `/${edge.node.slug}/`,
              component: slash(postTemplate),
              context: {
                id: edge.node.id,
              },
            })
          })
          resolve()
        })
      })
    // ==== END POSTS ====

  })
}
```
