examples/using-remark/src/pages/2017-01-02---responsive-images-and-iframes/index.md, before:

---
title: "Responsive Images and iFrames"
date: "2017-01-02"
draft: false
author: Jay Gatsby
tags:
  - remark
  - Images
  - Videos
  - iFrames
---

![](mikael-cho-214358.jpg)
*Photo by [Mikael Cho](https://unsplash.com/@mikael) via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@mikael?photo=_3TDkAttcaM)*

[gatsby-remark-images][1] and [gatsby-remark-responsive-iframe][2]
are here to take care of all your basic Markdown image and iframe issues.

## Images

[gatsby-remark-images][1] provides _out-of-the-box progressive image
loading_ (as popularized by [Medium][3] and [Facebook][4]) for all local JPGs
and PNGs in your Markdown documents.

Let's see some more photos by [Max Boettinger](https://unsplash.com/@maxboettinger) ([I](https://unsplash.com/photos/T7Lnl3PFISM), [II](https://unsplash.com/@maxboettinger?photo=SUFS6CPjB5Q)):

![](max-boettinger-109436.jpg)

![](max-boettinger-288448.jpg)

### Okay, nice! But what about GIFs?

Sadly, [Sharp](https://github.com/lovell/sharp) – the library that does the
actual image processing for us in [gatsby-plugin-sharp][5] – is not able to
write out the GIF file format. We will just copy them over for you, instead,
and also do that with SVGs.

An animated GIF of the Select2 Logo: ![Select2 Logo animation](select2-logo.gif)

An inline example ![example](squiggly.svg) SVG. Tremendous!

And here's an awesome SVG tiger:

![awesome tiger](awesome_tiger.svg)

## iFrames and video embeds

Let's add a YouTube video to show off responsive iFrames real quick:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hbjR5N6IhDU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[1]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-images/
[2]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-responsive-iframe/
[3]: https://jmperezperez.com/medium-image-progressive-loading-placeholder/
[4]: https://code.facebook.com/posts/991252547593574/the-technology-behind-preview-photos/
[5]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/

Commit message:

Added blog post on <img/> tags (#1291)
* Added blog post on <img/> tags

* Removed extra post and instead added to the existing post

* Remove author info as new post was removed

examples/using-remark/src/pages/2017-01-02---responsive-images-and-iframes/index.md, after:

---
title: "Responsive Images and iFrames"
date: "2017-01-02"
draft: false
author: Jay Gatsby
tags:
  - remark
  - Images
  - Videos
  - iFrames
---

![](mikael-cho-214358.jpg)
*Photo by [Mikael Cho](https://unsplash.com/@mikael) via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@mikael?photo=_3TDkAttcaM)*

[gatsby-remark-images][1] and [gatsby-remark-responsive-iframe][2]
are here to take care of all your basic Markdown image and iframe issues.

## Images

[gatsby-remark-images][1] provides _out-of-the-box progressive image
loading_ (as popularized by [Medium][3] and [Facebook][4]) for all local JPGs
and PNGs in your Markdown documents.

You aren't just limited to markdown image tags either. You can either use markdown image tags:

```
![](image.png)
```

Or HTML image tags:

```
<img src='image.png' />
```

Let's see some more photos by [Max Boettinger](https://unsplash.com/@maxboettinger) ([I](https://unsplash.com/photos/T7Lnl3PFISM), [II](https://unsplash.com/@maxboettinger?photo=SUFS6CPjB5Q)):

![](max-boettinger-109436.jpg)

![](max-boettinger-288448.jpg)

### Okay, nice! But what about GIFs?

Sadly, [Sharp](https://github.com/lovell/sharp) – the library that does the
actual image processing for us in [gatsby-plugin-sharp][5] – is not able to
write out the GIF file format. We will just copy them over for you, instead,
and also do that with SVGs.

An animated GIF of the Select2 Logo: ![Select2 Logo animation](select2-logo.gif)

An inline example ![example](squiggly.svg) SVG. Tremendous!

And here's an awesome SVG tiger:

![awesome tiger](awesome_tiger.svg)

## iFrames and video embeds

Let's add a YouTube video to show off responsive iFrames real quick:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hbjR5N6IhDU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[1]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-images/
[2]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-responsive-iframe/
[3]: https://jmperezperez.com/medium-image-progressive-loading-placeholder/
[4]: https://code.facebook.com/posts/991252547593574/the-technology-behind-preview-photos/
[5]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/
