packages/gatsby-image/README.md, before:

# gatsby-image

Speedy, optimized images without the work.

`gatsby-image` is a React component specially designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby's GraphQL queries. It combines [Gatsby's native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities with advanced image loading techniques to easily and completely optimize image loading for your sites.

**[Demo](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org)**

## Problem

Large, unoptimized images dramatically slow down your site.

But creating optimized images for websites has long been a thorny problem. Ideally you would:

* Resize large images to the size needed by your design
* Generate multiple smaller images so smartphones and tablets don't download desktop-sized images
* Strip all unnecessary metadata and optimize JPEG and PNG compression
* Efficiently lazy load images to speed initial page load and save bandwidth
* Use the "blur-up" technique or a "[traced placeholder](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/2435)" SVG to show a preview of the image while it loads
* Hold the image position so your page doesn't jump while images load

Doing this consistantly across a site feels like sisyphean labor. You manually optimize your images and then… several images are swapped in at the last minute or a design-tweak shaves 100px of width off your images.

Most solutions involve a lot of manual labor and bookkeeping to ensure every image is optimized.

This isn't ideal. Optimized images should be easy and the default.

## Solution

With Gatsby, we can make images way *way* better.

`gatsby-image` is designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby's native image processing capabilities powered by GraphQL and Sharp. To produce
perfect images, you need only:

1) Import `gatsby-image` and use it in place of the built-in `img`
2) Write a simple GraphQL query using one of the included GraphQL "fragments" which specify the fields needed by `gatsby-image`.

The GraphQL query creates multiple thumbnails with optimized JPEG and PNG compression. The `gatsby-image` component automatically sets up the "blur-up" effect as well as lazy loading of images further down the screen.

This is what a component using `gatsby-images` looks like.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import Img from 'gatsby-image'

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
    <Img resolutions={data.file.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
  </div>
)

export const query = graphql`
  query GatsbyImageSampleQuery {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "blog/avatars/kyle-mathews.jpeg"}) {
      childImageSharp {
        # Specify the image processing steps right in the query
        # Makes it trivial to update as your page's design changes.
        resolutions(width: 125, height: 125) {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

## Two types of responsive images

There are two types of responsive images supported by gatsby-image.

1) Images that have a *fixed* width and height
2) Images that stretch across a fluid container

In the first scenario, you want to vary the image's size for different screen *resolutions* -- in other words, create retina images.

For the second scenario, you want to create multiple *sizes* of thumbnails for devices with widths stretching from smartphone to wide desktop monitors.

To decide between the two, ask yourself: "do I know the exact size this image will be?" If yes, it's the first type. If no and its width and/or height need to vary depending on the size of the screen, then it's the second type.

In Gatsby's GraphQL implementation, you query for the first type by querying a child object of an image called `resolutions` — which you can see in the sample component above. For the second type, you do a similar query but for a child object called `sizes`.

## Fragments

GraphQL includes a concept called "query fragments". Which, as the name suggests, are a part of a query that can be used in multiple queries. To ease building with `gatsby-image`, Gatsby image processing plugins which support `gatsby-image` ship with fragments which you can easily include in your queries.

Note, [due to a limitation of GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues/612), you can not currently use these fragments in the GraphiQL IDE.

Plugins supporting `gatsby-image` currently include [gatsby-transformer-sharp](/packages/gatsby-transformer-sharp/) and [gatsby-source-contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/).

Their fragments are:

### gatsby-transformer-sharp

* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp_tracedSVG`

### gatsby-source-contentful

* `GatsbyContentfulResolutions`
* `GatsbyContentfulResolutions_noBase64`
* `GatsbyContentfulSizes`
* `GatsbyContentfulSizes_noBase64`

If you don't want to use the blur-up effect, choose the fragment with `noBase64` at the end. If you want to use the traced placeholder SVGs, choose the fragment with `tracedSVG` at the end.

If you want to automatically use WebP images when the browser supports the file format, use the `withWebp` fragments. If the browser doesn't support WebP, `gatsby-image` will fall back to the default image format.

_Please see the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#tracedsvg) documentation for more information on `tracedSVG` and its configuration options._

## "Resolutions" queries

### Component

Pass in the data returned from the `resolutions` object in your query via the `resolutions` prop. e.g. `<Img resolutions={resolutions} />`

### Query

```graphql
{
  imageSharp {
    # Other options include height (set both width and height to crop),
    # grayscale, duotone, rotate, etc.
    resolutions(width: 400) {
      # Choose either the fragment including a small base64ed image, a traced placeholder SVG, or one without.
      ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
    }
  }
}
```

## "Sizes" queries

### Component

Pass in the data returned from the `sizes` object in your query via the `sizes` prop. e.g. `<Img sizes={sizes} />`

### Query

```graphql
{
  imageSharp {
    # i.e. the max width of your container is 700 pixels.
    #
    # Other options include maxHeight (set both maxWidth and maxHeight to crop),
    # grayscale, duotone, rotate, etc.
    sizes(maxWidth: 700) {
      # Choose either the fragment including a small base64ed image, a traced placeholder SVG, or one without.
      ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_noBase64
    }
  }
}
```

## `gatsby-image` props

| Name                      | Type            | Description                              |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `resolutions`             | `object`        | Data returned from the `resolutions` query  |
| `sizes`                   | `object`        | Data returned from the `sizes` query   |
| `fadeIn`                  | `bool`          | Defaults to fading in the image on load  |
| `title`                   | `string`        | Passed to the `img` element  |
| `alt`                     | `string`        | Passed to the `img` element   |
| `className`               | `string|object` | Passed to the wrapper div. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop |
| `outerWrapperClassName`   | `string|object` | Passed to the outer wrapper div. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop |
| `style`                   | `object`        | Spread into the default styles in the wrapper div |
| `position`                | `string`        | Defaults to `relative`. Pass in `absolute` to make the component `absolute` positioned |
| `backgroundColor`         | `string|bool`   | Set a colored background placeholder. If true, uses "lightgray" for the color. You can also pass in any valid color string. |

## Some other stuff to be aware of

* If you want to set `display: none;` on a component using a `resolutions` prop, you need to also pass in to the style prop `{ display: 'inherit' }`.* Images don't load until JavaScript is loaded. Gatsby's automatic code splitting generally makes this fine but if images seem slow coming in on a page, check how much JavaScript is being loaded there.

Commit message:

Add onLoad prop to gatsby-image (#2818)

packages/gatsby-image/README.md, after:

# gatsby-image

Speedy, optimized images without the work.

`gatsby-image` is a React component specially designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby's GraphQL queries. It combines [Gatsby's native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities with advanced image loading techniques to easily and completely optimize image loading for your sites.

**[Demo](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org)**

## Problem

Large, unoptimized images dramatically slow down your site.

But creating optimized images for websites has long been a thorny problem. Ideally you would:

* Resize large images to the size needed by your design
* Generate multiple smaller images so smartphones and tablets don't download desktop-sized images
* Strip all unnecessary metadata and optimize JPEG and PNG compression
* Efficiently lazy load images to speed initial page load and save bandwidth
* Use the "blur-up" technique or a "[traced placeholder](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/2435)" SVG to show a preview of the image while it loads
* Hold the image position so your page doesn't jump while images load

Doing this consistantly across a site feels like sisyphean labor. You manually optimize your images and then… several images are swapped in at the last minute or a design-tweak shaves 100px of width off your images.

Most solutions involve a lot of manual labor and bookkeeping to ensure every image is optimized.

This isn't ideal. Optimized images should be easy and the default.

## Solution

With Gatsby, we can make images way *way* better.

`gatsby-image` is designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby's native image processing capabilities powered by GraphQL and Sharp. To produce
perfect images, you need only:

1) Import `gatsby-image` and use it in place of the built-in `img`
2) Write a simple GraphQL query using one of the included GraphQL "fragments" which specify the fields needed by `gatsby-image`.

The GraphQL query creates multiple thumbnails with optimized JPEG and PNG compression. The `gatsby-image` component automatically sets up the "blur-up" effect as well as lazy loading of images further down the screen.

This is what a component using `gatsby-images` looks like.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import Img from 'gatsby-image'

export default ({ data }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
    <Img resolutions={data.file.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
  </div>
)

export const query = graphql`
  query GatsbyImageSampleQuery {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "blog/avatars/kyle-mathews.jpeg"}) {
      childImageSharp {
        # Specify the image processing steps right in the query
        # Makes it trivial to update as your page's design changes.
        resolutions(width: 125, height: 125) {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

## Two types of responsive images

There are two types of responsive images supported by gatsby-image.

1) Images that have a *fixed* width and height
2) Images that stretch across a fluid container

In the first scenario, you want to vary the image's size for different screen *resolutions* -- in other words, create retina images.

For the second scenario, you want to create multiple *sizes* of thumbnails for devices with widths stretching from smartphone to wide desktop monitors.

To decide between the two, ask yourself: "do I know the exact size this image will be?" If yes, it's the first type. If no and its width and/or height need to vary depending on the size of the screen, then it's the second type.

In Gatsby's GraphQL implementation, you query for the first type by querying a child object of an image called `resolutions` — which you can see in the sample component above. For the second type, you do a similar query but for a child object called `sizes`.

## Fragments

GraphQL includes a concept called "query fragments". Which, as the name suggests, are a part of a query that can be used in multiple queries. To ease building with `gatsby-image`, Gatsby image processing plugins which support `gatsby-image` ship with fragments which you can easily include in your queries.

Note, [due to a limitation of GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues/612), you can not currently use these fragments in the GraphiQL IDE.

Plugins supporting `gatsby-image` currently include [gatsby-transformer-sharp](/packages/gatsby-transformer-sharp/) and [gatsby-source-contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/).

Their fragments are:

### gatsby-transformer-sharp

* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_tracedSVG`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp_noBase64`
* `GatsbyImageSharpSizes_withWebp_tracedSVG`

### gatsby-source-contentful

* `GatsbyContentfulResolutions`
* `GatsbyContentfulResolutions_noBase64`
* `GatsbyContentfulSizes`
* `GatsbyContentfulSizes_noBase64`

If you don't want to use the blur-up effect, choose the fragment with `noBase64` at the end. If you want to use the traced placeholder SVGs, choose the fragment with `tracedSVG` at the end.

If you want to automatically use WebP images when the browser supports the file format, use the `withWebp` fragments. If the browser doesn't support WebP, `gatsby-image` will fall back to the default image format.

_Please see the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#tracedsvg) documentation for more information on `tracedSVG` and its configuration options._

## "Resolutions" queries

### Component

Pass in the data returned from the `resolutions` object in your query via the `resolutions` prop. e.g. `<Img resolutions={resolutions} />`

### Query

```graphql
{
  imageSharp {
    # Other options include height (set both width and height to crop),
    # grayscale, duotone, rotate, etc.
    resolutions(width: 400) {
      # Choose either the fragment including a small base64ed image, a traced placeholder SVG, or one without.
      ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions
    }
  }
}
```

## "Sizes" queries

### Component

Pass in the data returned from the `sizes` object in your query via the `sizes` prop. e.g. `<Img sizes={sizes} />`

### Query

```graphql
{
  imageSharp {
    # i.e. the max width of your container is 700 pixels.
    #
    # Other options include maxHeight (set both maxWidth and maxHeight to crop),
    # grayscale, duotone, rotate, etc.
    sizes(maxWidth: 700) {
      # Choose either the fragment including a small base64ed image, a traced placeholder SVG, or one without.
      ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_noBase64
    }
  }
}
```

## `gatsby-image` props

| Name                      | Type            | Description                              |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `resolutions`             | `object`        | Data returned from the `resolutions` query  |
| `sizes`                   | `object`        | Data returned from the `sizes` query   |
| `fadeIn`                  | `bool`          | Defaults to fading in the image on load  |
| `title`                   | `string`        | Passed to the `img` element  |
| `alt`                     | `string`        | Passed to the `img` element   |
| `className`               | `string|object` | Passed to the wrapper div. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop |
| `outerWrapperClassName`   | `string|object` | Passed to the outer wrapper div. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop |
| `style`                   | `object`        | Spread into the default styles in the wrapper div |
| `position`                | `string`        | Defaults to `relative`. Pass in `absolute` to make the component `absolute` positioned |
| `backgroundColor`         | `string|bool`   | Set a colored background placeholder. If true, uses "lightgray" for the color. You can also pass in any valid color string. |
| `onLoad`                  | `func`          | A callback that is called when the full-size image has loaded.

## Some other stuff to be aware of

* If you want to set `display: none;` on a component using a `resolutions` prop, you need to also pass in to the style prop `{ display: 'inherit' }`.* Images don't load until JavaScript is loaded. Gatsby's automatic code splitting generally makes this fine but if images seem slow coming in on a page, check how much JavaScript is being loaded there.
